concept-install-options-google.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-install-options-google.html
keywords: aws networking, networking, connector networking, ports, proxy server, outbound internet, endpoints, urls, permissions, cloud permission, aws permissions, iam role, keys, aws keys, aws marketplace, marketplace install, manuall install, connector installer
summary: Deploy a Connector in AWS so that BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.
---

= Connector installation options in Google Cloud
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can choose from the following options to create a Connector in Google Cloud:

* Create the Connector directly from BlueXP (this is the standard option)
+
This action launches a VM instance running Linux and the Connector software in a VPC of your choice.

* Create the Connector using gcloud
+
This action also launches a VM instance running Linux and the Connector software.

* Download and manually install the software on your own Linux host

The installation option that you choose impacts how you prepare for installation. This includes how you provide BlueXP with the required permissions that it needs to authenticate and manage resources in Google Cloud. Learn more by reading through the sections below.

Commit message:

More edits for standard mode deployments

concept-install-options-google.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-install-options-google.html
keywords: aws networking, networking, connector networking, ports, proxy server, outbound internet, endpoints, urls, permissions, cloud permission, aws permissions, iam role, keys, aws keys, aws marketplace, marketplace install, manuall install, connector installer
summary: Deploy a Connector in AWS so that BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.
---

= Connector installation options in Google Cloud
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
There are a few different ways to create a Connector in Azure. Directly from BlueXP is the most common way.

The following options are available:

* Create the Connector directly from BlueXP (this is the standard option)
+
This action launches a VM instance running Linux and the Connector software in a VPC of your choice.

* Create the Connector using gcloud
+
This action also launches a VM instance running Linux and the Connector software.

* Download and manually install the software on your own Linux host

The installation option that you choose impacts how you prepare for installation. This includes how you provide BlueXP with the required permissions that it needs to authenticate and manage resources in Google Cloud.
