concept-federation.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-federation.html
keywords: identity federation, federation, federated identity, set up identity federation, set up federated connection, federated connection
summary: Identity federation enables single sign-on with BlueXP so that users can log in using credentials from your corporate identity. You should understand how BlueXP supports identity federation before you set up a connection with your identity provider.
---

= Using identity federation with BlueXP
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Identity federation enables single sign-on with BlueXP so that users can log in using credentials from your corporate identity. You should understand how BlueXP supports identity federation before you set up a connection with your identity provider.

== How identity federation works

Setting up identity federation creates a trust connection between BlueXP's authentication service provider (auth0) and your own identity management provider.

The following image depicts how identity federation works:


. A user enters their email address on the BlueXP login page.
. BlueXP identifies that the email domain is part of a federated connection and sends the authentication request to the identity provider.
. The user authenticates by using credentials from your corporate directory.
. Your identity provider authenticates the user's identity and the user is logged in to BlueXP.

Identity federation uses open standards, such as Security Assertion Markup Language 2.0 (SAML) and OpenID Connect (OIDC).

== Supported identity providers

BlueXP supports the following identity providers:

* Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS)
* Microsoft Azure Active Directory (AD)
* Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) identity providers
* PingFederate

BlueXP supports service provider initiated (SP-initiated) SSO only. Identity provider initiated (IdP-initiated) SSO is not supported.

== Overview of the set up process

Before you set up a connection between BlueXP and your identity management provider, you should understand the steps that you'll need to take so that you can prepare accordingly.

=== ADFS

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and ADFS includes the following steps:

. Configure your ADFS server to enable identity federation with our authentication provider (auth0)
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You'll need the following to get started:

* An existing ADFS server
* Permission to configure the ADFS server so that you can enable identity federation with auth0
* The URL for the ADFS server

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

=== Microsoft Azure AD

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and Microsoft Azure AD includes the following steps:

. Create a new application in Azure Active Directory along with a client secret
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You need to ensure the following before you get started:

* Microsoft Azure Active Directory is set up
* You have permission to create a new application in Azure Active Directory

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

=== SAML identity provider

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and a SAML identity provider includes the following steps:

. Create a new connection with your SAML identity provider
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You'll need the following to get started:

* An existing SAML identity provider
* The required access to configure a new connection with your SAML identity provider
* The sign in URL for your identity provider
* An X509 signing certificate (PEM or CER format)
* The sign out URL for your identity provider (optional)

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

=== PingFederate

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and PingFederate includes the following steps:

. Create a new connection with your PingFederate server
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You'll need the following to get started:

* An existing PingFederate server
* The required access to configure a new connection with PingFederate
* The URL for your PingFederate server
* An X509 signing certificate (PEM or CER format)

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

Commit message:

Added a conceptual diagram for identity federation

concept-federation.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-federation.html
keywords: identity federation, federation, federated identity, set up identity federation, set up federated connection, federated connection
summary: Identity federation enables single sign-on with BlueXP so that users can log in using credentials from your corporate identity. You should understand how BlueXP supports identity federation before you set up a connection with your identity provider.
---

= Using identity federation with BlueXP
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Identity federation enables single sign-on with BlueXP so that users can log in using credentials from your corporate identity. You should understand how BlueXP supports identity federation before you set up a connection with your identity provider.

== How identity federation works

Setting up identity federation creates a trust connection between BlueXP's authentication service provider (auth0) and your own identity management provider.

The following image depicts how identity federation works:

image:diagram-identity-federation.png[A diagram that shows a user authenticating with BlueXP and a connection between BlueXP and an identity provider that authenticates the user.]

. A user enters their email address on the BlueXP login page.
. BlueXP identifies that the email domain is part of a federated connection and sends the authentication request to the identity provider using the trusted connection.
. The user authenticates by using credentials from your corporate directory.
. Your identity provider authenticates the user's identity and the user is logged in to BlueXP.

Identity federation uses open standards, such as Security Assertion Markup Language 2.0 (SAML) and OpenID Connect (OIDC).

== Supported identity providers

BlueXP supports the following identity providers:

* Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS)
* Microsoft Azure Active Directory (AD)
* Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) identity providers
* PingFederate

BlueXP supports service provider initiated (SP-initiated) SSO only. Identity provider initiated (IdP-initiated) SSO is not supported.

== Overview of the set up process

Before you set up a connection between BlueXP and your identity management provider, you should understand the steps that you'll need to take so that you can prepare accordingly.

=== ADFS

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and ADFS includes the following steps:

. Configure your ADFS server to enable identity federation with our authentication provider (auth0)
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You'll need the following to get started:

* An existing ADFS server
* Permission to configure the ADFS server so that you can enable identity federation with auth0
* The URL for the ADFS server

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

=== Microsoft Azure AD

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and Microsoft Azure AD includes the following steps:

. Create a new application in Azure Active Directory along with a client secret
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You need to ensure the following before you get started:

* Microsoft Azure Active Directory is set up
* You have permission to create a new application in Azure Active Directory

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

=== SAML identity provider

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and a SAML identity provider includes the following steps:

. Create a new connection with your SAML identity provider
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You'll need the following to get started:

* An existing SAML identity provider
* The required access to configure a new connection with your SAML identity provider
* The sign in URL for your identity provider
* An X509 signing certificate (PEM or CER format)
* The sign out URL for your identity provider (optional)

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.

=== PingFederate

At a high-level, setting up a federated connection between BlueXP and PingFederate includes the following steps:

. Create a new connection with your PingFederate server
. Create a connection with auth0
. Complete configuration on your identity server
. Test and enable the connection

You'll need the following to get started:

* An existing PingFederate server
* The required access to configure a new connection with PingFederate
* The URL for your PingFederate server
* An X509 signing certificate (PEM or CER format)

When you're ready to set up the federated connection, go to the https://services.cloud.netapp.com/federation-setup[Federation Setup page^] and complete the steps described on the page.
