concept-modes.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-modes.html
keywords: dark site, internet, onprem, no internet, supported deployments, govcloud, government access, environments, supported environments, deployment modes, modes, private mode, restricted mode, il6, sc2s, c2s, dark site
summary: You can use BlueXP in environments that have full internet access, limited internet access, and no internet access. How you set up and use BlueXP depends on your requirements.
---

= BlueXP deployment modes
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can use BlueXP in environments that have full internet access, limited internet access, and no internet access. How you set up and use BlueXP depends on your requirements.

== Overview

BlueXP offers the following deployment modes for an account. These modes support environments with varying levels of connectivity.

Standard mode::
BlueXP is accessible to users as a cloud service (SaaS). This mode uses encrypted data transmission over the public internet.

Restricted mode::
The BlueXP Connector is installed in a government region, sovereign cloud region, or commercial region and has outbound unidirectional connectivity to the BlueXP SaaS backend. Users access BlueXP locally from the Connector, not from the SaaS website. 
+
This mode is typically used by state and local governments and regulated companies.

Private mode::
The BlueXP Connector is installed in a location that has complete isolation from the internet, either on-premises or in a cloud region. There is no connectivity outside the data center or cloud region. Users access BlueXP locally from the Connector, not from the SaaS website.
+
The cloud region can be a commercial region or a region for secure US agencies like https://aws.amazon.com/federal/us-intelligence-community/[AWS C2S/SC2S^] or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/compliance/offerings/offering-dod-il6[Azure IL6^].

The following table provides a comparison of these modes.

[cols="h,d,d,d",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
|
| Standard mode
| Restricted mode
| Private mode

| Connection required to BlueXP SaaS?
| Yes
| Outbound only
| No

| Connection required to your cloud provider?
| Yes
| Yes, within the region
| Yes, if using Cloud Volumes ONTAP

| Connector installation
| SaaS, marketplace, or manual install
| Marketplace or manual install
| Manual install

| Connector upgrades
| Automatic
| Automatic
| Manual

| UI and API access
| SaaS or local
| Local
| Local

| Authentication
| Through SaaS using auth0, NSS login, or identity federation
| Through SaaS using auth0 or identity federation
| Local user authentication

| Supported BlueXP services
| All
a| 
* Cloud Backup
* Cloud Data Sense
* Cloud Volumes ONTAP
* Digital Wallet
* On-prem ONTAP clusters
* Replication
a|
* Cloud Backup
* Cloud Data Sense
* Cloud Volumes ONTAP
* Digital Wallet
* On-prem ONTAP clusters
* Replication

| Licensing options
| PAYGO and BYOL
| PAYGO and BYOL
| BYOL

|===
To learn more about these modes, read through the following sections.

== Standard mode

The following image shows a typical deployment when using BlueXP in standard mode.

image:diagram-standard-mode.png[A conceptual image...]

BlueXP works as follows in standard mode:

Outbound communication::
Connectivity is required from the Connector to the BlueXP SaaS backend, to your cloud provider's publicly available resources, and to other essential components for day-to-day operations.

Connector installation::
From a setup wizard in BlueXP or from the AWS or Azure Marketplace. An installer is also available to manually install the Connector on your own Linux host in your data center or in the cloud.

Connector upgrades::
Automated software upgrades from BlueXP with monthly updates.

User interface and API access::
From the SaaS website or locally from the Connector, if needed.

Authentication::
Authentication is provided through BlueXP's cloud service using auth0 or through NetApp Support Site (NSS) logins. Identity federation is available.

Supported BlueXP services::
All BlueXP services are available to users.

Supported licensing options::
The supported licensing options depends on which BlueXP service you are using. Review the documentation for each service to learn more about the available licensing options.

== Restricted mode

The following image shows a typical deployment when using BlueXP in restricted mode.

image:diagram-restricted-mode.png[A conceptual image...]

BlueXP works as follows in restricted mode:

Outbound communication::
Outbound, unidirectional connectivity is required from the Connector to the BlueXP SaaS backend to use data services, to enable automatic software upgrades, to use auth0-based authentication, and to send metadata for charging purposes (storage VM name, allocated capacity, and volume UUID, type, and IOPS).
+
A connection is also required to cloud provider resources from within the region.

Supported location for the Connector::
In the cloud, in a government region, sovereign region, or commercial region.

Connector installation::
From the AWS or Azure Marketplace, or a manual installation on your own Linux host.

Connector upgrades::
Automated software upgrades from BlueXP with monthly updates.

User interface and API access::
From the Connector that's deployed in your cloud region.

Authentication::
Authentication is provided through BlueXP's cloud service using auth0. Identity federation is also available.

Supported BlueXP services::
BlueXP supports the following storage and data services with restricted mode:
+
[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Supported services
| Notes

| Cloud Backup | Supported in Government regions with restricted mode. Not supported in commercial regions or in sovereign regions with restricted mode. 

The following features are not supported: Applications, Virtual Machines, and Kubernetes
| Cloud Data Sense | Supported in Government regions with restricted mode. Not supported in commercial regions or in sovereign regions with restricted mode.  

The following features are not supported: One Drive scanning and Azure Information Protection (AIP).

| Cloud Volumes ONTAP | Full support

| Digital Wallet | You can use the Digital Wallet with the supported licensing options listed below for restricted mode.

| On-premises ONTAP clusters | The Advanced view (System Manager) is not supported.

| Replication | Supported in Government regions with restricted mode. Not supported in commercial regions or in sovereign regions with restricted mode.

|===

Supported licensing options::
The following licensing options are supported with restricted mode:

* PAYGO
+
For Cloud Volumes ONTAP, only capacity-based licensing is supported with PAYGO.

* BYOL
+
For Cloud Volumes ONTAP, both capacity-based licensing and node-based licensing are supported with BYOL.

== Private mode

BlueXP supports the following private mode deployments:

* On-premises environment only
* Cloud region only
* Connection between a cloud region and an on-premises environment
+
With this option, you would install a Connector either in the cloud or on premises and ensure that there's a network connection between the two environments.

The following image shows a typical _hybrid cloud_ deployment when using BlueXP in private mode. In this example, the Connector is installed in the cloud.

image:diagram-private-mode-cloud.png[A conceptual image...]

Meanwhile, this second image shows a typical _on-premises deployment_ when using BlueXP in private mode.

image:diagram-private-mode-onprem.png[A conceptual image...]

BlueXP works as follows in private mode:

Outbound communication::
All packages, dependencies, and essential components are packaged with the Connector and served from the local machine. No connectivity is required to the BlueXP SaaS backend. Connectivity to your cloud provider's publicly available resources is required only if you are deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

Supported location for the Connector::
In the cloud or on premises.

Connector installation::
Manual installation on your own Linux host.

Connector upgrades::
Manual software upgrades at undefined intervals.

User interface and API access::
From the Connector that's deployed in your cloud region or on premises.

Authentication::
Local user management and access. Authentication is not provided through BlueXP's cloud service.

Supported BlueXP services in cloud deployments::
BlueXP supports the following storage and data services with private mode when the Connector is installed in the cloud:
+
[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Supported services
| Notes

| Cloud Backup | Supported in AWS and Azure commercial regions. 

Not supported in Google Cloud or in https://aws.amazon.com/federal/us-intelligence-community/[AWS C2S/SC2S^] or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/compliance/offerings/offering-dod-il6[Azure IL6^].

| Cloud Volumes ONTAP | Because there's no internet access, the following features aren't available: automated software upgrades, AutoSupport, and AWS cost information.

| Digital Wallet | You can use the Digital Wallet with the supported licensing options listed below for private mode.

| On-premises ONTAP clusters | Full support

|===

Supported BlueXP services in on-prem deployments::
BlueXP supports the following storage and data services with private mode when the Connector is installed on your premises:
+
[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Supported services
| Notes

| Cloud Backup 
| The following features are not supported: Applications, Virtual Machines, Kubernetes, single file restore, and automatic backups of Indexed Catalog files.

| Cloud Data Sense
| The following outbound scanning features are not supported: S3, One Drive, and Azure Information Protection (AIP).

| Digital Wallet | You can use the Digital Wallet with the supported licensing options listed below for private mode.

| On-premises ONTAP clusters | Full support

| Replication | Full support

|===

BlueXP feature limitations::
In the Support Dashboard, adding a NetApp Support Site account and opening a case isn't supported because there is no outbound internet connection.

Supported licensing options::
Only BYOL is supported with private mode. 
+
For Cloud Volumes ONTAP BYOL, only node-based licensing is supported. Capacity-based licensing is not supported. Because an outbound internet connection isn't available, you will need to manually upload your Cloud Volumes ONTAP licensing file in the Digital Wallet.
+
https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-cloud-volumes-ontap/task-manage-node-licenses.html#add-unassigned-licenses[Learn how to add licenses to the Digital Wallet^]

== How to get started

Once you've decided which deployment mode works best for your business needs, use the following links to get started with BlueXP.

* link:task-quick-start-standard-mode.html[Get started with standard mode]
* link:task-quick-start-restricted-mode.html[Get started with restricted mode]
* link:task-quick-start-private-mode.html[Get started with private mode]

Commit message:

More edits for BlueXP standard mode

concept-modes.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-modes.html
keywords: dark site, internet, onprem, no internet, supported deployments, govcloud, government access, environments, supported environments, deployment modes, modes, private mode, restricted mode, il6, sc2s, c2s, dark site
summary: You can use BlueXP in environments that have full internet access, limited internet access, and no internet access. How you set up and use BlueXP depends on your requirements.
---

= BlueXP deployment modes
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can use BlueXP in environments that have full internet access, limited internet access, and no internet access. How you set up and use BlueXP depends on your requirements.

== Overview

BlueXP offers the following deployment modes for an account. These modes support environments with varying levels of connectivity.

Standard mode::
BlueXP is accessible to users as a cloud service (SaaS). This mode uses encrypted data transmission over the public internet.

Restricted mode::
The BlueXP Connector is installed in a government region, sovereign cloud region, or commercial region and has outbound unidirectional connectivity to the BlueXP SaaS backend. Users access BlueXP locally from the Connector, not from the SaaS website. 
+
This mode is typically used by state and local governments and regulated companies.

Private mode::
The BlueXP Connector is installed in a location that has complete isolation from the internet, either on-premises or in a cloud region. There is no connectivity outside the data center or cloud region. Users access BlueXP locally from the Connector, not from the SaaS website.
+
The cloud region can be a commercial region or a region for secure US agencies like https://aws.amazon.com/federal/us-intelligence-community/[AWS C2S/SC2S^] or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/compliance/offerings/offering-dod-il6[Azure IL6^].

The following table provides a comparison of these modes.

[cols="h,d,d,d",options="header,autowidth"]
|===
|
| Standard mode
| Restricted mode
| Private mode

| Connection required to BlueXP SaaS?
| Yes
| Outbound only
| No

| Connection required to your cloud provider?
| Yes
| Yes, within the region
| Yes, if using Cloud Volumes ONTAP

| Connector installation
| SaaS, marketplace, or manual install
| Marketplace or manual install
| Manual install

| Connector upgrades
| Automatic
| Automatic
| Manual

| UI and API access
| SaaS or local
| Local
| Local

| Authentication
| Through SaaS using auth0, NSS login, or identity federation
| Through SaaS using auth0 or identity federation
| Local user authentication

| Supported BlueXP services
| All
a| 
* Cloud Backup
* Cloud Data Sense
* Cloud Volumes ONTAP
* Digital Wallet
* On-prem ONTAP clusters
* Replication
a|
* Cloud Backup
* Cloud Data Sense
* Cloud Volumes ONTAP
* Digital Wallet
* On-prem ONTAP clusters
* Replication

| Licensing options
| PAYGO and BYOL
| PAYGO and BYOL
| BYOL

|===
To learn more about these modes, read through the following sections.

== Standard mode

The following image shows a typical deployment when using BlueXP in standard mode.

image:diagram-standard-mode.png[A conceptual image...]

BlueXP works as follows in standard mode:

Outbound communication::
Connectivity is required from the Connector to the BlueXP SaaS backend, to your cloud provider's publicly available resources, and to other essential components for day-to-day operations.

Connector installation::
From a setup wizard in BlueXP, from the AWS or Azure Marketplace, or using an installer to manually install the Connector on your own Linux host in your data center or in the cloud.
+
With standard mode, you can install one or more Connectors in your account, depending on your requirements.

Connector upgrades::
Automated software upgrades from BlueXP with monthly updates.

User interface and API access::
From the SaaS website or locally from the Connector, if needed.

Authentication::
Authentication is provided through BlueXP's cloud service using auth0 or through NetApp Support Site (NSS) logins. Identity federation is available.

Supported BlueXP services::
All BlueXP services are available to users.

Supported licensing options::
The supported licensing options depends on which BlueXP service you are using. Review the documentation for each service to learn more about the available licensing options.

== Restricted mode

The following image shows a typical deployment when using BlueXP in restricted mode.

image:diagram-restricted-mode.png[A conceptual image...]

BlueXP works as follows in restricted mode:

Outbound communication::
Outbound, unidirectional connectivity is required from the Connector to the BlueXP SaaS backend to use data services, to enable automatic software upgrades, to use auth0-based authentication, and to send metadata for charging purposes (storage VM name, allocated capacity, and volume UUID, type, and IOPS).
+
A connection is also required to cloud provider resources from within the region.

Supported location for the Connector::
In the cloud, in a government region, sovereign region, or commercial region.

Connector installation::
From the AWS or Azure Marketplace, or a manual installation on your own Linux host.
+
With restricted mode, your account has just one Connector.

Connector upgrades::
Automated software upgrades from BlueXP with monthly updates.

User interface and API access::
From the Connector that's deployed in your cloud region.

Authentication::
Authentication is provided through BlueXP's cloud service using auth0. Identity federation is also available.

Supported BlueXP services::
BlueXP supports the following storage and data services with restricted mode:
+
[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Supported services
| Notes

| Cloud Backup | Supported in Government regions with restricted mode. Not supported in commercial regions or in sovereign regions with restricted mode. 

The following features are not supported: Applications, Virtual Machines, and Kubernetes
| Cloud Data Sense | Supported in Government regions with restricted mode. Not supported in commercial regions or in sovereign regions with restricted mode.  

The following features are not supported: One Drive scanning and Azure Information Protection (AIP).

| Cloud Volumes ONTAP | Full support

| Digital Wallet | You can use the Digital Wallet with the supported licensing options listed below for restricted mode.

| On-premises ONTAP clusters | The Advanced view (System Manager) is not supported.

| Replication | Supported in Government regions with restricted mode. Not supported in commercial regions or in sovereign regions with restricted mode.

|===

Supported licensing options::
The following licensing options are supported with restricted mode:

* PAYGO
+
For Cloud Volumes ONTAP, only capacity-based licensing is supported with PAYGO.

* BYOL
+
For Cloud Volumes ONTAP, both capacity-based licensing and node-based licensing are supported with BYOL.

== Private mode

BlueXP supports the following private mode deployments:

* On-premises environment only
* Cloud region only
* Connection between a cloud region and an on-premises environment
+
With this option, you would install a Connector either in the cloud or on premises and ensure that there's a network connection between the two environments.

The following image shows a typical _hybrid cloud_ deployment when using BlueXP in private mode. In this example, the Connector is installed in the cloud.

image:diagram-private-mode-cloud.png[A conceptual image...]

Meanwhile, this second image shows a typical _on-premises deployment_ when using BlueXP in private mode.

image:diagram-private-mode-onprem.png[A conceptual image...]

BlueXP works as follows in private mode:

Outbound communication::
All packages, dependencies, and essential components are packaged with the Connector and served from the local machine. No connectivity is required to the BlueXP SaaS backend. Connectivity to your cloud provider's publicly available resources is required only if you are deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

Supported location for the Connector::
In the cloud or on premises.

Connector installation::
Manual installation on your own Linux host.
+
With private mode, your account has just one Connector.

Connector upgrades::
Manual software upgrades at undefined intervals.

User interface and API access::
From the Connector that's deployed in your cloud region or on premises.

Authentication::
Local user management and access. Authentication is not provided through BlueXP's cloud service.

Supported BlueXP services in cloud deployments::
BlueXP supports the following storage and data services with private mode when the Connector is installed in the cloud:
+
[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Supported services
| Notes

| Cloud Backup | Supported in AWS and Azure commercial regions. 

Not supported in Google Cloud or in https://aws.amazon.com/federal/us-intelligence-community/[AWS C2S/SC2S^] or https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/compliance/offerings/offering-dod-il6[Azure IL6^].

| Cloud Volumes ONTAP | Because there's no internet access, the following features aren't available: automated software upgrades, AutoSupport, and AWS cost information.

| Digital Wallet | You can use the Digital Wallet with the supported licensing options listed below for private mode.

| On-premises ONTAP clusters | Full support

|===

Supported BlueXP services in on-prem deployments::
BlueXP supports the following storage and data services with private mode when the Connector is installed on your premises:
+
[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Supported services
| Notes

| Cloud Backup 
| The following features are not supported: Applications, Virtual Machines, Kubernetes, single file restore, and automatic backups of Indexed Catalog files.

| Cloud Data Sense
| The following outbound scanning features are not supported: S3, One Drive, and Azure Information Protection (AIP).

| Digital Wallet | You can use the Digital Wallet with the supported licensing options listed below for private mode.

| On-premises ONTAP clusters | Full support

| Replication | Full support

|===

BlueXP feature limitations::
In the Support Dashboard, adding a NetApp Support Site account and opening a case isn't supported because there is no outbound internet connection.

Supported licensing options::
Only BYOL is supported with private mode. 
+
For Cloud Volumes ONTAP BYOL, only node-based licensing is supported. Capacity-based licensing is not supported. Because an outbound internet connection isn't available, you will need to manually upload your Cloud Volumes ONTAP licensing file in the Digital Wallet.
+
https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-cloud-volumes-ontap/task-manage-node-licenses.html#add-unassigned-licenses[Learn how to add licenses to the Digital Wallet^]

== How to get started

Once you've decided which deployment mode works best for your business needs, use the following links to get started with BlueXP.

* link:task-quick-start-standard-mode.html[Get started with standard mode]
* link:task-quick-start-restricted-mode.html[Get started with restricted mode]
* link:task-quick-start-private-mode.html[Get started with private mode]
