concept-netapp-accounts.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-netapp-accounts.html
keywords: accounts, workspaces, Connector, users, cloud central, admin, Account Admin, Workspace Admin, account settings, workspaces, users, members, connector, service connector, user accounts, what are users, what is a workspace, users and workspaces
summary: A NetApp account provides multi-tenancy and enables you to organize users and resources in isolated workspaces from within Cloud Manager.
---

= Learn about NetApp accounts
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
A _NetApp account_ provides multi-tenancy and enables you to organize users and resources in isolated workspaces from within Cloud Manager.

For example, multiple users can deploy and manage Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems in isolated environments called _workspaces_. These workspaces are invisible to other users, unless they are shared.

When you first access Cloud Manager, you're prompted to select or create a NetApp account:

image:screenshot_account_selection.gif[A screenshot of the Cloud Manager setup wizard that prompts you for the NetApp account in which you want to create Cloud Manager.]

Account Admins can then modify the settings for this account by managing users (members), workspaces, Connectors, and subscriptions:

image:screenshot_account_settings.gif["A screenshot that shows the Manage Account widget from which you can manage users, workspaces, and Connectors."]

For step-by-step instructions, see link:task-setting-up-netapp-accounts.html[Setting up the NetApp account].

== Max Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems

The maximum number of Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems is limited to 20 per NetApp account, regardless of the licensing model in use.

A _system_ is either an HA pair or a single node system. For example, if you have two Cloud Volumes ONTAP HA pairs and two single node systems, you’d have a total of 4 systems, with room for 16 additional systems in your account.

If you have questions, reach out to your account rep or sales team.

== Account Settings

The Manage Account widget in Cloud Manager enables Account Admins to manage a NetApp account. If you just created your account, then you'll start from scratch. But if you've already set up an account, then you'll see _all_ the users, workspaces, Connectors, and subscriptions that are associated with the account.

== Overview

The Overview page shows the Account Name and the Account ID. You may need to provide your Account ID when registering some services. This page also includes some Cloud Manager configuration options.

== Members

The members are NetApp Cloud Central users that you associate with your NetApp account. Associating a user with an account and one or more workspaces in that account enables those users to create and manage working environments in Cloud Manager.

When you associate a user, you assign them a role:

* _Account Admin_: Can perform any action in Cloud Manager.
* _Workspace Admin_: Can create and manage resources in the assigned workspace.
* _Compliance Viewer_: Can only view Cloud Data Sense compliance information and generate reports for systems that they have permission to access.
* _SnapCenter Admin_: Can use the SnapCenter Service to create application consistent backups and restore data using those backups. _This service is currently in Beta._

link:reference-user-roles.html[Learn more about these roles].

== Workspaces

In Cloud Manager, a workspace isolates any number of _working environments_ from other working environments. Workspace Admins can't access the working environments in a workspace unless the Account Admin associates the admin with that workspace.

A working environment represents a storage system:

* A single-node Cloud Volumes ONTAP system or an HA pair
* An on-premises ONTAP cluster in your network
* An ONTAP cluster in a NetApp Private Storage configuration

link:task-setting-up-netapp-accounts.html[Learn how to add a workspace].

== Connectors

A Connector enables Cloud Manager to manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment. The Connector runs on a virtual machine instance that you deploy in your cloud provider, or on an on-prem host that you configured.

You can use a Connector with more than one NetApp cloud data service. For example, if you already have a Connector for Cloud Manager, you can select it when you set up the Cloud Tiering service.

link:concept-connectors.html[Learn more about Connectors].

== Subscriptions

These are the NetApp subscriptions associated with the selected account.

When you subscribe to Cloud Manager from a cloud provider's marketplace, you're redirected to Cloud Central where you need to save your subscription and associate it with specific accounts.

After you've subscribed, each subscription is available from the Manage Account widget. You'll only see the subscriptions that are associated with the account that you're currently viewing.

You have the option to rename a subscription and to disassociate the subscription from one or more accounts.

For example, let's say that you have two accounts and each is billed through separate subscriptions. You might disassociate a subscription from one of the accounts so the users in that account don't accidentally choose the wrong subscription when creating a Cloud Volume ONTAP working environment.

link:task-managing-netapp-accounts.html#managing-subscriptions[Learn how to manage subscriptions].

== Examples

The following examples depict how you might set up your accounts.

NOTE: In both example images that follow, the Connector and the Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems don't actually reside _in_ the NetApp account--they're running in a cloud provider. This is a conceptual representation of the relationship between each component.

=== Example 1

The following example shows an account that uses two workspaces to create isolated environments. The first workspace is for a production environment and the second is for a dev environment.

image:diagram_cloud_central_accounts_one.png[A diagram that shows a single NetApp account that contains two workspaces. Each workspace is associated with the same Connector and each has their own Workspace Admin.]

=== Example 2

Here's another example that shows the highest level of multi-tenancy by using two separate NetApp accounts. For example, a service provider might use Cloud Manager in one account to provide services for their customers, while using another account to provide disaster recovery for one of their business units.

Note that account 2 includes two separate Connectors. This might happen if you have systems in separate regions or in separate cloud providers.

image:diagram_cloud_central_accounts_two.png["A diagram that shows two NetApp accounts, each with several workspaces and their associated Workspace Admins."]

Commit message:

Linked to the main licensing page for details about max systems

concept-netapp-accounts.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-netapp-accounts.html
keywords: accounts, workspaces, Connector, users, cloud central, admin, Account Admin, Workspace Admin, account settings, workspaces, users, members, connector, service connector, user accounts, what are users, what is a workspace, users and workspaces
summary: A NetApp account provides multi-tenancy and enables you to organize users and resources in isolated workspaces from within Cloud Manager.
---

= Learn about NetApp accounts
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
A _NetApp account_ provides multi-tenancy and enables you to organize users and resources in isolated workspaces from within Cloud Manager.

For example, multiple users can deploy and manage Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems in isolated environments called _workspaces_. These workspaces are invisible to other users, unless they are shared.

When you first access Cloud Manager, you're prompted to select or create a NetApp account:

image:screenshot_account_selection.gif[A screenshot of the Cloud Manager setup wizard that prompts you for the NetApp account in which you want to create Cloud Manager.]

Account Admins can then modify the settings for this account by managing users (members), workspaces, Connectors, and subscriptions:

image:screenshot_account_settings.gif["A screenshot that shows the Manage Account widget from which you can manage users, workspaces, and Connectors."]

For step-by-step instructions, see link:task-setting-up-netapp-accounts.html[Setting up the NetApp account].

== Account Settings

The Manage Account widget in Cloud Manager enables Account Admins to manage a NetApp account. If you just created your account, then you'll start from scratch. But if you've already set up an account, then you'll see _all_ the users, workspaces, Connectors, and subscriptions that are associated with the account.

== Overview

The Overview page shows the Account Name and the Account ID. You may need to provide your Account ID when registering some services. This page also includes some Cloud Manager configuration options.

== Members

The members are NetApp Cloud Central users that you associate with your NetApp account. Associating a user with an account and one or more workspaces in that account enables those users to create and manage working environments in Cloud Manager.

When you associate a user, you assign them a role:

* _Account Admin_: Can perform any action in Cloud Manager.
* _Workspace Admin_: Can create and manage resources in the assigned workspace.
* _Compliance Viewer_: Can only view Cloud Data Sense compliance information and generate reports for systems that they have permission to access.
* _SnapCenter Admin_: Can use the SnapCenter Service to create application consistent backups and restore data using those backups. _This service is currently in Beta._

link:reference-user-roles.html[Learn more about these roles].

== Workspaces

In Cloud Manager, a workspace isolates any number of _working environments_ from other working environments. Workspace Admins can't access the working environments in a workspace unless the Account Admin associates the admin with that workspace.

A working environment represents a storage system:

* A single-node Cloud Volumes ONTAP system or an HA pair
* An on-premises ONTAP cluster in your network
* An ONTAP cluster in a NetApp Private Storage configuration

link:task-setting-up-netapp-accounts.html[Learn how to add a workspace].

== Connectors

A Connector enables Cloud Manager to manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment. The Connector runs on a virtual machine instance that you deploy in your cloud provider, or on an on-prem host that you configured.

You can use a Connector with more than one NetApp cloud data service. For example, if you already have a Connector for Cloud Manager, you can select it when you set up the Cloud Tiering service.

link:concept-connectors.html[Learn more about Connectors].

== Subscriptions

These are the NetApp subscriptions associated with the selected account.

When you subscribe to Cloud Manager from a cloud provider's marketplace, you're redirected to Cloud Central where you need to save your subscription and associate it with specific accounts.

After you've subscribed, each subscription is available from the Manage Account widget. You'll only see the subscriptions that are associated with the account that you're currently viewing.

You have the option to rename a subscription and to disassociate the subscription from one or more accounts.

For example, let's say that you have two accounts and each is billed through separate subscriptions. You might disassociate a subscription from one of the accounts so the users in that account don't accidentally choose the wrong subscription when creating a Cloud Volume ONTAP working environment.

link:task-managing-netapp-accounts.html#managing-subscriptions[Learn how to manage subscriptions].

== Examples

The following examples depict how you might set up your accounts.

NOTE: In both example images that follow, the Connector and the Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems don't actually reside _in_ the NetApp account--they're running in a cloud provider. This is a conceptual representation of the relationship between each component.

=== Example 1

The following example shows an account that uses two workspaces to create isolated environments. The first workspace is for a production environment and the second is for a dev environment.

image:diagram_cloud_central_accounts_one.png[A diagram that shows a single NetApp account that contains two workspaces. Each workspace is associated with the same Connector and each has their own Workspace Admin.]

=== Example 2

Here's another example that shows the highest level of multi-tenancy by using two separate NetApp accounts. For example, a service provider might use Cloud Manager in one account to provide services for their customers, while using another account to provide disaster recovery for one of their business units.

Note that account 2 includes two separate Connectors. This might happen if you have systems in separate regions or in separate cloud providers.

image:diagram_cloud_central_accounts_two.png["A diagram that shows two NetApp accounts, each with several workspaces and their associated Workspace Admins."]

== Max Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems

Each NetApp account is limited to a maximum number of Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems. https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-cloud-volumes-ontap/concept-licensing.html#max-number-of-systems[Learn more about this limit^]
