concept-accounts-aws.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-accounts-aws.html
keywords: cloud provider accounts, aws, aws accounts, keys, multiple accounts, permissions, aws permissions, policy, policies, json
summary: Cloud Manager enables you to choose the AWS credentials to use when deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP. You can deploy all of your Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems using the initial AWS credentials, or you can add additional credentials.
---

= AWS credentials and permissions
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Cloud Manager enables you to choose the AWS credentials to use when deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP. You can deploy all of your Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems using the initial AWS credentials, or you can add additional credentials.

== Initial AWS credentials

When you deploy a Connector from Cloud Manager, you need to use an AWS account that has permissions to launch the Connector instance. The required permissions are listed in the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/info/cloud-manager-policies[Connector deployment policy for AWS^].

When Cloud Manager launches the Connector instance in AWS, it creates an IAM role and an instance profile for the instance. It also attaches a policy that provides Cloud Manager with permissions to manage resources and processes within that AWS account. link:reference-permissions-aws.html[Review how Cloud Manager uses the permissions].

image:diagram_permissions_initial_aws.png["A conceptual image that shows Cloud Central deploying Cloud Manager in an AWS account. An IAM policy is assigned to an IAM role, which is attached to the Cloud Manager instance."]

Cloud Manager selects these AWS credentials by default when you create a new working environment for Cloud Volumes ONTAP:

image:screenshot_accounts_select_aws.gif[A screenshot that shows the Switch Account option in the Details & Credentials page.]

== Additional AWS credentials

If you want to launch Cloud Volumes ONTAP in different AWS accounts, then you can either link:task-adding-aws-accounts.html[provide AWS keys for an IAM user or the ARN of a role in a trusted account]. The following image shows two additional accounts, one providing permissions through an IAM role in a trusted account and another through the AWS keys of an IAM user:

image:diagram_permissions_multiple_aws.png["A conceptual image that shows two additional accounts. Each has an IAM policy, one is attached to IAM user and the other is attached to an IAM role."]

You would then link:task-adding-aws-accounts.html#adding-aws-accounts-to-cloud-manager[add the account credentials to Cloud Manager] by specifying the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the IAM role, or the AWS keys for the IAM user.

After you add another set of credentials, you can switch to them when creating a new working environment:

image:screenshot_accounts_switch_aws.png[A screenshot that shows selecting between cloud provider accounts after clicking Switch Account in the Details & Credentials page.]

== What about Marketplace deployments and on-prem deployments?

The sections above describe the recommended deployment method for the Connector, which is from Cloud Manager. You can also deploy a Connector in AWS from the link:task-launching-aws-mktp.html[AWS Marketplace] and you can link:task-installing-linux.html[install the Connector on-premises].

If you use the Marketplace, permissions are provided in the same way. You just need to manually create and set up the IAM role, and then provide permissions for any additional accounts.

For on-premises deployments, you can't set up an IAM role for the Cloud Manager system, but you can provide permissions just like you would for additional AWS accounts.

== How can I securely rotate my AWS credentials?

As described above, Cloud Manager enables you to provide AWS credentials in a few ways: an IAM role associated with the Connector instance, by assuming an IAM role in a trusted account, or by providing AWS access keys.

With the first two options, Cloud Manager uses the AWS Security Token Service to obtain temporary credentials that rotate constantly. This process is the best practice--it's automatic and it's secure.

If you provide Cloud Manager with AWS access keys, you should rotate the keys by updating them in Cloud Manager at a regular interval. This is a completely manual process.

Commit message:

Updated with info about adding the ARN of an IAM role for the Connector

concept-accounts-aws.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: concept-accounts-aws.html
keywords: cloud provider accounts, aws, aws accounts, keys, multiple accounts, permissions, aws permissions, policy, policies, json
summary: Cloud Manager enables you to choose the AWS credentials to use when deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP. You can deploy all of your Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems using the initial AWS credentials, or you can add additional credentials.
---

= AWS credentials and permissions
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Cloud Manager enables you to choose the AWS credentials to use when deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP. You can deploy all of your Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems using the initial AWS credentials, or you can add additional credentials.

== Initial AWS credentials

When you deploy a Connector from Cloud Manager, you need to provide the ARN of an IAM role or access keys for an IAM user. The authentication method that you use must have the required permissions to deploy the Connector instance in AWS. The required permissions are listed in the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/info/cloud-manager-policies[Connector deployment policy for AWS^].

When Cloud Manager launches the Connector instance in AWS, it creates an IAM role and an instance profile for the instance. It also attaches a policy that provides the Connector with permissions to manage resources and processes within that AWS account. link:reference-permissions-aws.html[Review how Cloud Manager uses the permissions].

image:diagram_permissions_initial_aws.png["A conceptual image that shows Cloud Central deploying Cloud Manager in an AWS account. An IAM policy is assigned to an IAM role, which is attached to the Cloud Manager instance."]

Cloud Manager selects these AWS credentials by default when you create a new working environment for Cloud Volumes ONTAP:

image:screenshot_accounts_select_aws.gif[A screenshot that shows the Switch Account option in the Details & Credentials page.]

== Additional AWS credentials

There are two ways to add additional AWS credentials.

=== Add AWS credentials to an existing Connector

If you want to launch Cloud Volumes ONTAP in different AWS accounts, then you can either link:task-adding-aws-accounts.html[provide AWS keys for an IAM user or the ARN of a role in a trusted account]. The following image shows two additional accounts, one providing permissions through an IAM role in a trusted account and another through the AWS keys of an IAM user:

image:diagram_permissions_multiple_aws.png["A conceptual image that shows two additional accounts. Each has an IAM policy, one is attached to IAM user and the other is attached to an IAM role."]

You would then link:task-adding-aws-accounts.html#adding-aws-accounts-to-cloud-manager[add the account credentials to Cloud Manager] by specifying the Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the IAM role, or the AWS keys for the IAM user.

After you add another set of credentials, you can switch to them when creating a new working environment:

image:screenshot_accounts_switch_aws.png[A screenshot that shows selecting between cloud provider accounts after clicking Switch Account in the Details & Credentials page.]

=== Add AWS credentials directly to Cloud Manager

Adding new AWS credentials to Cloud Manager gives Cloud Manager the permissions needed to create and manage an FSx for ONTAP working environment or to create a Connector.

== What about Marketplace deployments and on-prem deployments?

The sections above describe the recommended deployment method for the Connector, which is from Cloud Manager. You can also deploy a Connector in AWS from the link:task-launching-aws-mktp.html[AWS Marketplace] and you can link:task-installing-linux.html[install the Connector on-premises].

If you use the Marketplace, permissions are provided in the same way. You just need to manually create and set up the IAM role, and then provide permissions for any additional accounts.

For on-premises deployments, you can't set up an IAM role for the Cloud Manager system, but you can provide permissions just like you would for additional AWS accounts.

== How can I securely rotate my AWS credentials?

As described above, Cloud Manager enables you to provide AWS credentials in a few ways: an IAM role associated with the Connector instance, by assuming an IAM role in a trusted account, or by providing AWS access keys.

With the first two options, Cloud Manager uses the AWS Security Token Service to obtain temporary credentials that rotate constantly. This process is the best practice--it's automatic and it's secure.

If you provide Cloud Manager with AWS access keys, you should rotate the keys by updating them in Cloud Manager at a regular interval. This is a completely manual process.
