reference-limitations.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: reference-limitations.html
keywords: limitations, active directory, ad, iscsi, key managers, ip address, govcloud, cloud manager, Cloud Volumes ONTAP, days, 14 days, running, Connectors should remain running
summary: Known limitations identify platforms, devices, or functions that are not supported by this release of the product, or that do not interoperate correctly with it. Review these limitations carefully.
---

= Known limitations
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Known limitations identify platforms, devices, or functions that are not supported by this release of the product, or that do not interoperate correctly with it. Review these limitations carefully.

These limitations are specific to Cloud Manager set up and administration: the Connector, the SaaS platform, and more.

== Connector limitations

=== Possible conflict with IP addresses in the 172 range

Cloud Manager deploys the Connector with two interfaces that have IP addresses in the 172.17.0.0/16 and 172.18.0.0/16 ranges.

If your network has a subnet configured with either of these ranges, then you might experience connectivity failures from Cloud Manager. For example, discovering on-prem ONTAP clusters in Cloud Manager might fail.

The workaround is to change the IP addresses of the Connector's interfaces. Contact NetApp Support for help.

=== Only an HTTP proxy server is supported

If your corporate policies require you to use a proxy server for all HTTP communication to the internet, then you must configure your Connectors to use that HTTP proxy server. The proxy server can be in the cloud or in your network.

Cloud Manager doesn't support using an HTTPS proxy with the Connector.

=== SSL decryption isn't supported

Cloud Manager doesn't support firewall configurations that have SSL decryption enabled. If SSL decryption is enabled, error messages appear in Cloud Manager and the Connector instance displays as inactive.

For enhanced security, you have the option to link:task-installing-https-cert.html[install an HTTPS certificate signed by a certificate authority (CA)].

=== Blank page when loading the local UI

If you load the local user interface for a Connector, the UI might fail to display sometimes, and you just get a blank page.

This issue is related to a caching problem. The workaround is to use an incognito or private web browser session.

=== Shared Linux hosts are not supported

The Connector isn't supported on a VM that is shared with other applications. The VM must be dedicated to the Connector software.

=== 3rd-party agents and extensions

3rd-party agents or VM extensions are not supported on the Connector VM.

== SaaS limitations

=== SaaS platform is disabled for Government regions

If you deploy a Connector in an AWS GovCloud region, an Azure Gov region, or an Azure DoD region, access to Cloud Manager is available only through a Connector's host IP address. Access to the SaaS platform is disabled for the entire account.

This means that only privileged users who can access the end-user internal VPC/VNet can use Cloud Manager's UI or API.

It also means that the following services aren't available from Cloud Manager:

* Kubernetes
* Cloud Tiering
* Global File Cache

The SaaS platform is required to use those services.

NOTE: Cloud Backup, Cloud Data Sense, and the Monitoring service are supported and available in Government regions.

== Marketplace limitations

=== Pay-as-you-go not available for Azure and Google Cloud partners

If you are a Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) partner or a Google Cloud partner, NetApp pay-as-you-go subscriptions are not available. You must purchase a license and deploy NetApp cloud solutions with a BYOL license.

Pay-as-you-go subscriptions are not available for the following NetApp cloud services:

*	Cloud Volumes ONTAP
*	Cloud Tiering
*	Cloud Backup
*	Cloud Data Sense

Commit message:

Updated contact support reference after KDE review. The updated text includes a link to a KB article for customer reference.

reference-limitations.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: reference-limitations.html
keywords: limitations, active directory, ad, iscsi, key managers, ip address, govcloud, cloud manager, Cloud Volumes ONTAP, days, 14 days, running, Connectors should remain running
summary: Known limitations identify platforms, devices, or functions that are not supported by this release of the product, or that do not interoperate correctly with it. Review these limitations carefully.
---

= Known limitations
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Known limitations identify platforms, devices, or functions that are not supported by this release of the product, or that do not interoperate correctly with it. Review these limitations carefully.

These limitations are specific to Cloud Manager set up and administration: the Connector, the SaaS platform, and more.

== Connector limitations

=== Possible conflict with IP addresses in the 172 range

Cloud Manager deploys the Connector with two interfaces that have IP addresses in the 172.17.0.0/16 and 172.18.0.0/16 ranges.

If your network has a subnet configured with either of these ranges, then you might experience connectivity failures from Cloud Manager. For example, discovering on-prem ONTAP clusters in Cloud Manager might fail.

See Knowledge Base article link:https://kb.netapp.com/Advice_and_Troubleshooting/Cloud_Services/Cloud_Manager/Cloud_Manager_shows_inactive_as_Connector_IP_range_in_172.x.x.x_conflict_with_docker_network[Cloud Manager Connector IP conflict with existing network] for instructions on how to change the IP address of the Connector’s interfaces. 

=== Only an HTTP proxy server is supported

If your corporate policies require you to use a proxy server for all HTTP communication to the internet, then you must configure your Connectors to use that HTTP proxy server. The proxy server can be in the cloud or in your network.

Cloud Manager doesn't support using an HTTPS proxy with the Connector.

=== SSL decryption isn't supported

Cloud Manager doesn't support firewall configurations that have SSL decryption enabled. If SSL decryption is enabled, error messages appear in Cloud Manager and the Connector instance displays as inactive.

For enhanced security, you have the option to link:task-installing-https-cert.html[install an HTTPS certificate signed by a certificate authority (CA)].

=== Blank page when loading the local UI

If you load the local user interface for a Connector, the UI might fail to display sometimes, and you just get a blank page.

This issue is related to a caching problem. The workaround is to use an incognito or private web browser session.

=== Shared Linux hosts are not supported

The Connector isn't supported on a VM that is shared with other applications. The VM must be dedicated to the Connector software.

=== 3rd-party agents and extensions

3rd-party agents or VM extensions are not supported on the Connector VM.

== SaaS limitations

=== SaaS platform is disabled for Government regions

If you deploy a Connector in an AWS GovCloud region, an Azure Gov region, or an Azure DoD region, access to Cloud Manager is available only through a Connector's host IP address. Access to the SaaS platform is disabled for the entire account.

This means that only privileged users who can access the end-user internal VPC/VNet can use Cloud Manager's UI or API.

It also means that the following services aren't available from Cloud Manager:

* Kubernetes
* Cloud Tiering
* Global File Cache

The SaaS platform is required to use those services.

NOTE: Cloud Backup, Cloud Data Sense, and the Monitoring service are supported and available in Government regions.

== Marketplace limitations

=== Pay-as-you-go not available for Azure and Google Cloud partners

If you are a Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider (CSP) partner or a Google Cloud partner, NetApp pay-as-you-go subscriptions are not available. You must purchase a license and deploy NetApp cloud solutions with a BYOL license.

Pay-as-you-go subscriptions are not available for the following NetApp cloud services:

*	Cloud Volumes ONTAP
*	Cloud Tiering
*	Cloud Backup
*	Cloud Data Sense
