reference-networking-cloud-manager.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: reference-networking-cloud-manager.html
keywords: networking, network, requirements, connection, connections, vpc, security group, security groups, subnets, proxy server, vpn, outbound, inbound, connections, jump host, URL, URLs, endpoints, endpoint, ports
summary: Set up your networking so that the Connector can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment. The most important step is ensuring outbound internet access to various endpoints.
---

= Set up networking for the Connector
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Set up your networking so the Connector can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment. The most important step is ensuring outbound internet access to various endpoints.

The information on this page is for a typical deployment where the Connector has outbound internet access.

TIP: If your network uses a proxy server for all communication to the internet, you can specify the proxy server from the Settings page. Refer to link:task-configuring-proxy.html[Configuring the Connector to use a proxy server].

== Connection to target networks

A Connector requires a network connection to the type of working environment that you’re creating and the services that you’re planning to enable.

For example, if you install a Connector in your corporate network, then you must set up a VPN connection to the VPC or VNet in which you launch Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

== Possible conflict with IP addresses in the 172 range

Cloud Manager deploys the Connector with two interfaces that have IP addresses in the 172.17.0.0/16 and 172.18.0.0/16 ranges.

If your network has a subnet configured with either of these ranges, then you might experience connectivity failures from Cloud Manager. For example, discovering on-prem ONTAP clusters in Cloud Manager might fail.

The workaround is to change the IP addresses of the Connector's interfaces. Contact NetApp Support for help.

== Outbound internet access

Outbound internet access is required from the Connector.

=== Endpoints to manage resources in your public cloud environment

The Connector requires outbound internet access to manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.

[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Endpoints
| Purpose

| \https://support.netapp.com | To obtain licensing information and to send AutoSupport messages to NetApp support.
| \https://*.cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com | To provide SaaS features and services within Cloud Manager.
| \https://cloudmanagerinfraprod.azurecr.io

\https://*.blob.core.windows.net
| To upgrade the Connector and its Docker components.

|===

=== Endpoints to install the Connector on a Linux host

You have the option to manually install the Connector software on your own Linux host. If you do, the installer for the Connector must access the following URLs during the installation process:

* \https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm
* \https://s3.amazonaws.com/aws-cli/awscli-bundle.zip
* \https://*.blob.core.windows.net or \https://hub.docker.com

The host might try to update operating system packages during installation. The host can contact different mirroring sites for these OS packages.

== Ports and security groups

There's no incoming traffic to the Connector, unless you initiate it. HTTP and HTTPS provide access to the link:concept-connectors.html#the-local-user-interface[local UI], which you'll use in rare circumstances. SSH is only needed if you need to connect to the host for troubleshooting.

=== Rules for the Connector in AWS

The security group for the Connector requires both inbound and outbound rules.

==== Inbound rules

[cols="10,10,80",width=100%,options="header"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| SSH | 22 | Provides SSH access to the Connector host
| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 |	Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface, and connections from the Cloud Data Sense instance
| TCP | 3128 | Provides the Cloud Data Sense instance with internet access, if your AWS network doesn’t use a NAT or proxy
| TCP | 9060 | Provides the ability to enable and use Cloud Data Sense (required only for GovCloud deployments)

|===

==== Outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector opens all outbound traffic. If that is acceptable, follow the basic outbound rules. If you need more rigid rules, use the advanced outbound rules.

===== Basic outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector includes the following outbound rules.

[cols=3*,options="header",width=70%,cols="20,20,60"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| All TCP | All | All outbound traffic
| All UDP | All |	All outbound traffic

|===

===== Advanced outbound rules

If you need rigid rules for outbound traffic, you can use the following information to open only those ports that are required for outbound communication by the Connector.

NOTE: The source IP address is the Connector host.

[cols=5*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Service
| Protocol
| Port
| Destination
| Purpose

| API calls and AutoSupport | HTTPS | 443 | Outbound internet and ONTAP cluster management LIF | API calls to AWS and ONTAP, to Cloud Data Sense, to the Ransomware service, and sending AutoSupport messages to NetApp
.2+| API calls | TCP | 3000 | ONTAP HA mediator | Communication with the ONTAP HA mediator
| TCP | 8088 | Backup to S3 | API calls to Backup to S3
| DNS | UDP	| 53 | DNS | Used for DNS resolve by Cloud Manager

|===

=== Rules for the Connector in Azure

The security group for the Connector requires both inbound and outbound rules.

==== Inbound rules

[cols=3*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| SSH | 22 | Provides SSH access to the Connector host
| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 | Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface, and connections from the Cloud Data Sense instance
| TCP | 9060 | Provides the ability to enable and use Cloud Data Sense (required only for Government Cloud deployments)

|===

==== Outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector opens all outbound traffic. If that is acceptable, follow the basic outbound rules. If you need more rigid rules, use the advanced outbound rules.

===== Basic outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector includes the following outbound rules.

[cols=3*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| All TCP | All | All outbound traffic
| All UDP |	All | All outbound traffic

|===

===== Advanced outbound rules

If you need rigid rules for outbound traffic, you can use the following information to open only those ports that are required for outbound communication by the Connector.

NOTE: The source IP address is the Connector host.

[cols=5*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Service
| Protocol
| Port
| Destination
| Purpose

| API calls and AutoSupport | HTTPS | 443 | Outbound internet and ONTAP cluster management LIF | API calls to AWS and ONTAP, to Cloud Data Sense, to the Ransomware service, and sending AutoSupport messages to NetApp
| DNS | UDP | 53	| DNS | Used for DNS resolve by Cloud Manager

|===

=== Rules for the Connector in GCP

The firewall rules for the Connector requires both inbound and outbound rules.

==== Inbound rules

[cols="10,10,80",width=100%,options="header"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| SSH | 22 | Provides SSH access to the Connector host
| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 |	Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface

|===

==== Outbound rules

The predefined firewall rules for the Connector opens all outbound traffic. If that is acceptable, follow the basic outbound rules. If you need more rigid rules, use the advanced outbound rules.

===== Basic outbound rules

The predefined firewall rules for the Connector includes the following outbound rules.

[cols=3*,options="header",width=70%,cols="20,20,60"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| All TCP | All | All outbound traffic
| All UDP | All |	All outbound traffic

|===

===== Advanced outbound rules

If you need rigid rules for outbound traffic, you can use the following information to open only those ports that are required for outbound communication by the Connector.

NOTE: The source IP address is the Connector host.

[cols=5*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Service
| Protocol
| Port
| Destination
| Purpose

| API calls and AutoSupport | HTTPS | 443 | Outbound internet and ONTAP cluster management LIF | API calls to GCP and ONTAP, to Cloud Data Sense, to the Ransomware service, and sending AutoSupport messages to NetApp
| DNS | UDP	| 53 | DNS | Used for DNS resolve by Cloud Manager

|===

=== Ports for the on-prem Connector

The Connector uses the following _inbound_ ports when installed manually on an on-premises Linux host.

These inbound rules apply to both deployment models for the on-prem Connector: installed with internet access or without internet access.

[cols="10,10,80",width=100%,options="header"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 |	Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface

|===

Commit message:

Updated contact support reference after KDE review

reference-networking-cloud-manager.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: reference-networking-cloud-manager.html
keywords: networking, network, requirements, connection, connections, vpc, security group, security groups, subnets, proxy server, vpn, outbound, inbound, connections, jump host, URL, URLs, endpoints, endpoint, ports
summary: Set up your networking so that the Connector can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment. The most important step is ensuring outbound internet access to various endpoints.
---

= Set up networking for the Connector
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Set up your networking so the Connector can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment. The most important step is ensuring outbound internet access to various endpoints.

The information on this page is for a typical deployment where the Connector has outbound internet access.

TIP: If your network uses a proxy server for all communication to the internet, you can specify the proxy server from the Settings page. Refer to link:task-configuring-proxy.html[Configuring the Connector to use a proxy server].

== Connection to target networks

A Connector requires a network connection to the type of working environment that you’re creating and the services that you’re planning to enable.

For example, if you install a Connector in your corporate network, then you must set up a VPN connection to the VPC or VNet in which you launch Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

== Possible conflict with IP addresses in the 172 range

Cloud Manager deploys the Connector with two interfaces that have IP addresses in the 172.17.0.0/16 and 172.18.0.0/16 ranges.

If your network has a subnet configured with either of these ranges, then you might experience connectivity failures from Cloud Manager. For example, discovering on-prem ONTAP clusters in Cloud Manager might fail.

See Knowledge Base article link:https://kb.netapp.com/Advice_and_Troubleshooting/Cloud_Services/Cloud_Manager/Cloud_Manager_shows_inactive_as_Connector_IP_range_in_172.x.x.x_conflict_with_docker_network[Cloud Manager Connector IP conflict with existing network] for instructions on how to change the IP address of the Connector’s interfaces.

== Outbound internet access

Outbound internet access is required from the Connector.

=== Endpoints to manage resources in your public cloud environment

The Connector requires outbound internet access to manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.

[cols=2*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===
| Endpoints
| Purpose

| \https://support.netapp.com | To obtain licensing information and to send AutoSupport messages to NetApp support.
| \https://*.cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com | To provide SaaS features and services within Cloud Manager.
| \https://cloudmanagerinfraprod.azurecr.io

\https://*.blob.core.windows.net
| To upgrade the Connector and its Docker components.

|===

=== Endpoints to install the Connector on a Linux host

You have the option to manually install the Connector software on your own Linux host. If you do, the installer for the Connector must access the following URLs during the installation process:

* \https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm
* \https://s3.amazonaws.com/aws-cli/awscli-bundle.zip
* \https://*.blob.core.windows.net or \https://hub.docker.com

The host might try to update operating system packages during installation. The host can contact different mirroring sites for these OS packages.

== Ports and security groups

There's no incoming traffic to the Connector, unless you initiate it. HTTP and HTTPS provide access to the link:concept-connectors.html#the-local-user-interface[local UI], which you'll use in rare circumstances. SSH is only needed if you need to connect to the host for troubleshooting.

=== Rules for the Connector in AWS

The security group for the Connector requires both inbound and outbound rules.

==== Inbound rules

[cols="10,10,80",width=100%,options="header"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| SSH | 22 | Provides SSH access to the Connector host
| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 |	Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface, and connections from the Cloud Data Sense instance
| TCP | 3128 | Provides the Cloud Data Sense instance with internet access, if your AWS network doesn’t use a NAT or proxy
| TCP | 9060 | Provides the ability to enable and use Cloud Data Sense (required only for GovCloud deployments)

|===

==== Outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector opens all outbound traffic. If that is acceptable, follow the basic outbound rules. If you need more rigid rules, use the advanced outbound rules.

===== Basic outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector includes the following outbound rules.

[cols=3*,options="header",width=70%,cols="20,20,60"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| All TCP | All | All outbound traffic
| All UDP | All |	All outbound traffic

|===

===== Advanced outbound rules

If you need rigid rules for outbound traffic, you can use the following information to open only those ports that are required for outbound communication by the Connector.

NOTE: The source IP address is the Connector host.

[cols=5*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Service
| Protocol
| Port
| Destination
| Purpose

| API calls and AutoSupport | HTTPS | 443 | Outbound internet and ONTAP cluster management LIF | API calls to AWS and ONTAP, to Cloud Data Sense, to the Ransomware service, and sending AutoSupport messages to NetApp
.2+| API calls | TCP | 3000 | ONTAP HA mediator | Communication with the ONTAP HA mediator
| TCP | 8088 | Backup to S3 | API calls to Backup to S3
| DNS | UDP	| 53 | DNS | Used for DNS resolve by Cloud Manager

|===

=== Rules for the Connector in Azure

The security group for the Connector requires both inbound and outbound rules.

==== Inbound rules

[cols=3*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| SSH | 22 | Provides SSH access to the Connector host
| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 | Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface, and connections from the Cloud Data Sense instance
| TCP | 9060 | Provides the ability to enable and use Cloud Data Sense (required only for Government Cloud deployments)

|===

==== Outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector opens all outbound traffic. If that is acceptable, follow the basic outbound rules. If you need more rigid rules, use the advanced outbound rules.

===== Basic outbound rules

The predefined security group for the Connector includes the following outbound rules.

[cols=3*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| All TCP | All | All outbound traffic
| All UDP |	All | All outbound traffic

|===

===== Advanced outbound rules

If you need rigid rules for outbound traffic, you can use the following information to open only those ports that are required for outbound communication by the Connector.

NOTE: The source IP address is the Connector host.

[cols=5*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Service
| Protocol
| Port
| Destination
| Purpose

| API calls and AutoSupport | HTTPS | 443 | Outbound internet and ONTAP cluster management LIF | API calls to AWS and ONTAP, to Cloud Data Sense, to the Ransomware service, and sending AutoSupport messages to NetApp
| DNS | UDP | 53	| DNS | Used for DNS resolve by Cloud Manager

|===

=== Rules for the Connector in GCP

The firewall rules for the Connector requires both inbound and outbound rules.

==== Inbound rules

[cols="10,10,80",width=100%,options="header"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| SSH | 22 | Provides SSH access to the Connector host
| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 |	Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface

|===

==== Outbound rules

The predefined firewall rules for the Connector opens all outbound traffic. If that is acceptable, follow the basic outbound rules. If you need more rigid rules, use the advanced outbound rules.

===== Basic outbound rules

The predefined firewall rules for the Connector includes the following outbound rules.

[cols=3*,options="header",width=70%,cols="20,20,60"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| All TCP | All | All outbound traffic
| All UDP | All |	All outbound traffic

|===

===== Advanced outbound rules

If you need rigid rules for outbound traffic, you can use the following information to open only those ports that are required for outbound communication by the Connector.

NOTE: The source IP address is the Connector host.

[cols=5*,options="header,autowidth"]
|===

| Service
| Protocol
| Port
| Destination
| Purpose

| API calls and AutoSupport | HTTPS | 443 | Outbound internet and ONTAP cluster management LIF | API calls to GCP and ONTAP, to Cloud Data Sense, to the Ransomware service, and sending AutoSupport messages to NetApp
| DNS | UDP	| 53 | DNS | Used for DNS resolve by Cloud Manager

|===

=== Ports for the on-prem Connector

The Connector uses the following _inbound_ ports when installed manually on an on-premises Linux host.

These inbound rules apply to both deployment models for the on-prem Connector: installed with internet access or without internet access.

[cols="10,10,80",width=100%,options="header"]
|===

| Protocol
| Port
| Purpose

| HTTP | 80 |	Provides HTTP access from client web browsers to the local user interface
| HTTPS |	443 |	Provides HTTPS access from client web browsers to the local user interface

|===
