task-adding-gcp-accounts.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-adding-gcp-accounts.html
keywords: permissions, gcp, marketplace, gcp subscription, subscription, gcp marketplace, subscribe, data tiering, tiering, setup, requirements, account for data tiering, account for tiering, interoperable, interoperability, interoperable storage access keys, access keys
summary: You can manage the credentials that are associated with the Connector VM instance.
---

= Managing Google Cloud credentials and subscriptions for BlueXP
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can manage the credentials that are associated with the Connector VM instance.

== Associating a Marketplace subscription with GCP credentials

When you deploy a Connector in GCP, BlueXP creates a default set of credentials that are associated with the Connector VM instance. These are the credentials that BlueXP uses to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

At any time, you can change the Marketplace subscription that's associated with these credentials. The subscription enables you to create a pay-as-you-go Cloud Volumes ONTAP system, and to use other NetApp cloud services.

.Steps

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.

. Click the action menu for a set of credentials and then select *Associate Subscription*.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_add_subscription.png[A screenshot of the action menu for a set of existing credentials.]

. Select a Google Cloud project and subscription from the down-down list.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_associate.gif[A screenshot of a Google Cloud project and subscription selected for Google Cloud credentials.]

. Click *Associate*.

. If you don't already have a subscription, click *Add Subscription* and follow the steps to create a new subscription below.
+
NOTE: Before you complete the following steps, ensure that you have both Billing Admin privileges in your Google Cloud account as well as a BlueXP login.

. Reivew the subscription steps and click *Continue*.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_sub_popup.png[A screenshot of a subscription pop-up.]

. After you're redirected to the https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/netapp-cloudmanager/cloud-manager[NetApp BlueXP page on the Google Cloud Marketplace^], ensure that the correct project is selected at the top navigation menu.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_cvo_marketplace.png[A screenshot of the GCP CVO marketplace page.]

. Click *Subscribe*.

. Select the appropriate billing account and agree to the terms and conditions.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_terms_and_conditions.png[A screenshot of the GCP terms and conditions.]

. Click *Subscribe*.
+
This step sends your transfer request to NetApp.

. On the pop-up dialog box, click *Register with NetApp, Inc.* to be redirected to the NetApp BlueXP website.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_marketplace_register.png[A screenshot of a registration pop-up.]
+
NOTE: This step must be completed to link the GCP subscription to your NetApp account. The process of linking a subscription isn't complete until you are redirected from this page and then sign in to BlueXP.

. After you're redirected to BlueXP, log in or sign up, and then click *Done* to proceed.
+
The GCP subscription will be linked to all NetApp accounts that your user login is associated with.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_sub_mapping.png[A screenshot of mapping a GCP subscription to a NetApp account.]
+
NOTE: If someone from your organization has already subscribed to the NetApp BlueXP subscription from your billing account, then you will be redirected to https://cloud.netapp.com/ontap-cloud?x-gcp-marketplace-token=[the Cloud Volumes ONTAP page on the BlueXP website^] instead. If this is unexpected, contact your NetApp sales team. Google enables only one subscription per Google billing account.

. Once this process is complete, navigate back to the Credentials page in BlueXP and select this new subscription.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_associate.gif[A screenshot of the subscription assignment page.]

== Troubleshooting the Marketplace subscription process

Sometimes subscribing to Cloud Volumes ONTAP through the Google Cloud Marketplace can become fragmented due to incorrect permissions or accidentally not following the redirection to the BlueXP website. If this happens, use the following steps to complete the subscription process.

.Steps

. Navigate to the https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/netapp-cloudmanager/cloud-manager[NetApp BlueXP page on the Google Cloud Marketplace^] to check on the state of the order. If the page states *Manage on Provider*, scroll down and click *Manage Orders*.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_manage_orders.png[A screenshot of the marketplace page post subscription.]

.. If the order shows a green check mark and this is unexpected, somebody else from the organization using the same billing account might already be subscribed. If this is unexpected or you require the details of this subscription, contact your NetApp sales team.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_green_marketplace.png[A screenshot of an accepted entitlement.]

.. If the order shows a clock and *Pending* status, go back to the marketplace page and choose *Manage on Provider* to complete the process as documented above.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_pending_marketplace.png[A screenshot of a pending marketplace entitlement.]

Commit message:

Manage accounts tied to subscriptions

task-adding-gcp-accounts.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-adding-gcp-accounts.html
keywords: permissions, gcp, marketplace, gcp subscription, subscription, gcp marketplace, subscribe, data tiering, tiering, setup, requirements, account for data tiering, account for tiering, interoperable, interoperability, interoperable storage access keys, access keys
summary: You can manage the credentials that are associated with the Connector VM instance.
---

= Managing Google Cloud credentials and subscriptions for BlueXP
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can manage the credentials that are associated with the Connector VM instance.

== Associating a Marketplace subscription with Google Cloud credentials

When you deploy a Connector in Google Cloud, BlueXP creates a default set of credentials that are associated with the Connector VM instance. These are the credentials that BlueXP uses to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

At any time, you can change the Marketplace subscription that's associated with these credentials. The subscription enables you to create a pay-as-you-go Cloud Volumes ONTAP system, and to use other NetApp cloud services.

.Steps

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.

. Click the action menu for a set of credentials and then select *Associate Subscription*.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_add_subscription.png[A screenshot of the action menu for a set of existing credentials.]

. Select a Google Cloud project and subscription from the down-down list.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_associate.gif[A screenshot of a Google Cloud project and subscription selected for Google Cloud credentials.]

. Click *Associate*.

. If you don't already have a subscription, click *Add Subscription* and follow the steps to create a new subscription below.
+
NOTE: Before you complete the following steps, ensure that you have both Billing Admin privileges in your Google Cloud account as well as a BlueXP login.

. Reivew the subscription steps and click *Continue*.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_sub_popup.png[A screenshot of a subscription pop-up.]

. After you're redirected to the https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/netapp-cloudmanager/cloud-manager[NetApp BlueXP page on the Google Cloud Marketplace^], ensure that the correct project is selected at the top navigation menu.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_cvo_marketplace.png[A screenshot of the GCP CVO marketplace page.]

. Click *Subscribe*.

. Select the appropriate billing account and agree to the terms and conditions.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_terms_and_conditions.png[A screenshot of the GCP terms and conditions.]

. Click *Subscribe*.
+
This step sends your transfer request to NetApp.

. On the pop-up dialog box, click *Register with NetApp, Inc.* to be redirected to the NetApp BlueXP website.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_marketplace_register.png[A screenshot of a registration pop-up.]
+
NOTE: This step must be completed to link the Google Cloud subscription to your NetApp account. The process of linking a subscription isn't complete until you are redirected from this page and then sign in to BlueXP.

. After you're redirected to BlueXP, log in or sign up, and then click *Done* to proceed.
+
The Google Cloud subscription will be linked to all NetApp accounts that your user login is associated with. If you need to limit access to the new subscription, you can manage the NetApp accounts that are associated with the subscription from the Digital Wallet. link:task-manage-subscriptions.html#manage-your-subscriptions[Learn how to manage your subscriptions].
+
image:screenshot_gcp_sub_mapping.png[A screenshot of mapping a GCP subscription to a NetApp account.]
+
NOTE: If someone from your organization has already subscribed to the NetApp BlueXP subscription from your billing account, then you will be redirected to https://cloud.netapp.com/ontap-cloud?x-gcp-marketplace-token=[the Cloud Volumes ONTAP page on the BlueXP website^] instead. If this is unexpected, contact your NetApp sales team. Google enables only one subscription per Google billing account.

. Once this process is complete, navigate back to the Credentials page in BlueXP and select this new subscription.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_associate.gif[A screenshot of the subscription assignment page.]

== Troubleshooting the Marketplace subscription process

Sometimes subscribing to Cloud Volumes ONTAP through the Google Cloud Marketplace can become fragmented due to incorrect permissions or accidentally not following the redirection to the BlueXP website. If this happens, use the following steps to complete the subscription process.

.Steps

. Navigate to the https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/netapp-cloudmanager/cloud-manager[NetApp BlueXP page on the Google Cloud Marketplace^] to check on the state of the order. If the page states *Manage on Provider*, scroll down and click *Manage Orders*.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_manage_orders.png[A screenshot of the marketplace page post subscription.]

.. If the order shows a green check mark and this is unexpected, somebody else from the organization using the same billing account might already be subscribed. If this is unexpected or you require the details of this subscription, contact your NetApp sales team.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_green_marketplace.png[A screenshot of an accepted entitlement.]

.. If the order shows a clock and *Pending* status, go back to the marketplace page and choose *Manage on Provider* to complete the process as documented above.
+
image:screenshot_gcp_pending_marketplace.png[A screenshot of a pending marketplace entitlement.]
