task-monitor-cm-operations.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-monitor-cm-operations.html
keywords: administer, monitor, account, timeline, notifications, alerts, events, notification center
summary: You can monitor the status of the operations that Cloud Manager is performing to see if there are any issues that you need to address. You can view the status in the Notification Center or in the Timeline.
---

= Monitoring operations in your account
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can monitor the status of the operations that Cloud Manager is performing to see if there are any issues that you need to address. You can view the status in the Notification Center or in the Timeline.

This table provides a comparison of the Notification Center and the Timeline so you can understand what each has to offer.

[cols=2*,options="header",cols="47,47",width="95%"]
|===

| Notification Center
| Timeline

| Shows high level status for events and actions | Provides details for each event or action for further investigation
| Shows status for the current login session - the information won't appear in the Notification Center after you log off  | Retains status for up to the last month
| Shows only actions initiated in the user interface | Shows all actions from the UI or APIs
| Shows user-initiated actions | Shows all actions, whether user-initiated or system-initiated
| Filter results by importance | Filter by service, action, user, status, and more
// | Provides the ability to retry a failed action | No ability to retry a failed action

|===

== Monitoring operations status using the Notification Center

Notifications are like events where they track the progress of operations that you've initiated in Cloud Manager so you can verify whether the operation was successful, or if it failed. They enable you to view the status for Cloud Manager operations (and cloud services operations in the future) that you initiated during your current login session.
// Notifications can even prompt you to retry a failed operation.

At this time, only notifications for creating and deleting the following Cloud Volumes ONTAP objects are supported:

* working environments
* aggregates
* volumes

You display the notifications by clicking the notification bell (image:icon_bell.png[notification bell]) in the menu bar. The color of the little bubble in the bell indicates the highest level severity notification that is active. So if you see a red bubble, it means there's an important notification that you should look at.

image:screenshot_notification_full.png[A screenshot showing the a list of current notifications in the Notification Center.]

=== Filtering notifications

By default you'll see all notifications. You can filter the notifications that you see in the Notification Center to show only those notifications that are important to you. You can filter by Cloud Manager "Service" and by notification "Type".

image:screenshot_notification_filters.png[A screenshot showing the two types of filters available in the Notification Center.]

For example, if you want to see only "Error" and "Warning" notifications for Cloud Manager operations, select those entries and you'll see only those types of notifications.

// === Selecting which account and which user notifications you will see
//
// By default, you'll see only your notification in the current account. You can choose to view notifications for the current account or all accounts, and you can choose to view notifications for your actions or all user actions.
//
// .Steps
//
// . In the Notification Center, click image:button_3_vert_dots.png[] and select *Settings*.
//
// image:screenshot_notification_settings.png[A screenshot of the available settings for the Notification Center.]
//
// . Choose from the following options:
//
// * Show notifications for the current account or for all accounts.
// * Show notifications for just your user login, or for all users in the account.

=== Dismissing notifications

You can remove notifications from the page if you no longer need to see them. You can dismiss all notifications at once, or you can dismiss individual notifications.

To dismiss all notifications, in the Notification Center, click image:button_3_vert_dots.png[] and select *Dismiss All*.
image:screenshot_notification_menu.png[A screenshot showing the Notifications menu to select settings and dismiss all options.]

To dismiss individual notifications, hover your cursor over the notification and click *Dismiss*.
image:screenshot_notification_dismiss1.png[A screenshot showing the how to dismiss a single notification.]

== Auditing user activity in your account

The Timeline in Cloud Manager shows the actions that users completed to manage your account. This includes management actions such as associating users, creating workspaces, creating Connectors, and more.

Checking the Timeline can be helpful if you need to identify who performed a specific action, or if you need to identify the status of an action.

.Steps

. Click *All Services > Timeline*.

. Under the Filters, click *Service*, enable *Tenancy*, and click *Apply*.

.Result

The Timeline updates to show you account management actions.

Commit message:

Revised steps for new left-hand navigation

task-monitor-cm-operations.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-monitor-cm-operations.html
keywords: administer, monitor, account, timeline, notifications, alerts, events, notification center
summary: You can monitor the status of the operations that Cloud Manager is performing to see if there are any issues that you need to address. You can view the status in the Notification Center or in the Timeline.
---

= Monitoring operations in your account
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can monitor the status of the operations that Cloud Manager is performing to see if there are any issues that you need to address. You can view the status in the Notification Center or in the Timeline.

This table provides a comparison of the Notification Center and the Timeline so you can understand what each has to offer.

[cols=2*,options="header",cols="47,47",width="95%"]
|===

| Notification Center
| Timeline

| Shows high level status for events and actions | Provides details for each event or action for further investigation
| Shows status for the current login session - the information won't appear in the Notification Center after you log off  | Retains status for up to the last month
| Shows only actions initiated in the user interface | Shows all actions from the UI or APIs
| Shows user-initiated actions | Shows all actions, whether user-initiated or system-initiated
| Filter results by importance | Filter by service, action, user, status, and more
// | Provides the ability to retry a failed action | No ability to retry a failed action

|===

== Monitoring operations status using the Notification Center

Notifications are like events where they track the progress of operations that you've initiated in Cloud Manager so you can verify whether the operation was successful, or if it failed. They enable you to view the status for Cloud Manager operations (and cloud services operations in the future) that you initiated during your current login session.
// Notifications can even prompt you to retry a failed operation.

At this time, only notifications for creating and deleting the following Cloud Volumes ONTAP objects are supported:

* working environments
* aggregates
* volumes

You display the notifications by clicking the notification bell (image:icon_bell.png[notification bell]) in the menu bar. The color of the little bubble in the bell indicates the highest level severity notification that is active. So if you see a red bubble, it means there's an important notification that you should look at.

image:screenshot_notification_full.png[A screenshot showing the a list of current notifications in the Notification Center.]

=== Filtering notifications

By default you'll see all notifications. You can filter the notifications that you see in the Notification Center to show only those notifications that are important to you. You can filter by Cloud Manager "Service" and by notification "Type".

image:screenshot_notification_filters.png[A screenshot showing the two types of filters available in the Notification Center.]

For example, if you want to see only "Error" and "Warning" notifications for Cloud Manager operations, select those entries and you'll see only those types of notifications.

// === Selecting which account and which user notifications you will see
//
// By default, you'll see only your notification in the current account. You can choose to view notifications for the current account or all accounts, and you can choose to view notifications for your actions or all user actions.
//
// .Steps
//
// . In the Notification Center, click image:button_3_vert_dots.png[] and select *Settings*.
//
// image:screenshot_notification_settings.png[A screenshot of the available settings for the Notification Center.]
//
// . Choose from the following options:
//
// * Show notifications for the current account or for all accounts.
// * Show notifications for just your user login, or for all users in the account.

=== Dismissing notifications

You can remove notifications from the page if you no longer need to see them. You can dismiss all notifications at once, or you can dismiss individual notifications.

To dismiss all notifications, in the Notification Center, click image:button_3_vert_dots.png[] and select *Dismiss All*.
image:screenshot_notification_menu.png[A screenshot showing the Notifications menu to select settings and dismiss all options.]

To dismiss individual notifications, hover your cursor over the notification and click *Dismiss*.
image:screenshot_notification_dismiss1.png[A screenshot showing the how to dismiss a single notification.]

== Auditing user activity in your account

The Timeline in Cloud Manager shows the actions that users completed to manage your account. This includes management actions such as associating users, creating workspaces, creating Connectors, and more.

Checking the Timeline can be helpful if you need to identify who performed a specific action, or if you need to identify the status of an action.

.Steps

. From the left-hand navigation menu, select *Timeline*.

. Under the Filters, click *Service*, enable *Tenancy*, and click *Apply*.

.Result

The Timeline updates to show you account management actions.
