task-signing-up.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-signing-up.html
keywords: netapp cloud central, sign up, sign up to cloud central, create account, federated, federation, federated login, federation login
summary: Sign up to NetApp Cloud Central so you can access NetApp's cloud services.
---

= Signing up to NetApp Cloud Central
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Sign up to NetApp Cloud Central so you can access NetApp's cloud services.

TIP: You can use single sign-on to log in using credentials from your corporate directory (federated identity). To learn more, go to the https://cloud.netapp.com/help-center[Cloud Central Help Center^] and then click *Cloud Central sign-in options*.

.Steps

. Open a web browser and go to https://cloud.netapp.com/[NetApp Cloud Central^].

. Click *Sign Up*.

. You have two options:

.. Fill out the form and click *Sign Up*.
+
image:screenshot-cloud-central-signup.png["A screenshot of the sign up form for Cloud Central where you enter your email address, password, company, name, and phone number."]

.. If you have a registered NetApp Support Site account, click *Log in with NetApp* and then enter your NetApp Support Site credentials.
+
Each time that you log in, you'll need to use the option that you chose during this sign up process.
+
NOTE: When you log in with NetApp, your NetApp Support Site credentials are not added to Cloud Manager in the Support Dashboard.
. Wait for an email from NetApp Cloud Central.

. Click the link in the email to verify your email address.

.Result

You now have an active Cloud Central user login.

Commit message:

Added a note about English characters in the sign up form

task-signing-up.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-signing-up.html
keywords: netapp cloud central, sign up, sign up to cloud central, create account, federated, federation, federated login, federation login
summary: Sign up to NetApp Cloud Central so you can access NetApp's cloud services.
---

= Signing up to NetApp Cloud Central
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Sign up to NetApp Cloud Central so you can access NetApp's cloud services.

TIP: You can use single sign-on to log in using credentials from your corporate directory (federated identity). To learn more, go to the https://cloud.netapp.com/help-center[Cloud Central Help Center^] and then click *Cloud Central sign-in options*.

.Requirements

Note that only English characters are allowed in the sign up form.

.Steps

. Open a web browser and go to https://cloud.netapp.com/[NetApp Cloud Central^]

. Click *Sign Up*.

. You have two options:

.. Fill out the form and click *Sign Up*.
+
image:screenshot-cloud-central-signup.png["A screenshot of the sign up form for Cloud Central where you enter your email address, password, company, name, and phone number."]

.. If you have a registered NetApp Support Site account, click *Log in with NetApp* and then enter your NetApp Support Site credentials.
+
Each time that you log in, you'll need to use the option that you chose during this sign up process.
+
NOTE: When you log in with NetApp, your NetApp Support Site credentials are not added to Cloud Manager in the Support Dashboard.

. Wait for an email from NetApp Cloud Central.

. Click the link in the email to verify your email address.

.Result

You now have an active Cloud Central user login.
