task-install-connector-azure.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-install-connector-azure.html
keywords: aws networking, networking, connector networking, ports, proxy server, outbound internet, endpoints, urls, permissions, cloud permission, aws permissions, iam role, keys, aws keys, aws marketplace, marketplace install, manuall install, connector installer
summary: Deploy a Connector in AWS so that BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.
---

= Create the Connector in Azure
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Create the Connector in Microsoft Azure and then set it up for use with BlueXP.

== Install the Connector

Create the Connector directly from the BlueXP user interface, from the Azure Marketplace, or by installing the software on your own Linux host.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.BlueXP
--
.What you'll need

* An Azure subscription.

* A VNet and subnet in your Azure region of choice.

* Details about a proxy server, if your organization requires a proxy for all outgoing internet traffic:

** IP address
** Credentials
** HTTPS certificate

* If you don't want BlueXP to automatically create an Azure role for the Connector, then you'll need to create your own link:reference-permissions-azure.html[using the policy on this page].
+
These permissions are for the Connector instance itself. It's a different set of permissions than what you previously set up to simply deploy the Connector.

.Steps

. If you're creating your first Working Environment, click *Add Working Environment* and follow the prompts. Otherwise, click the *Connector* drop-down and select *Add Connector*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_add.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Add Connector action.]

. Choose *Microsoft Azure* as your cloud provider.

. On the *Deploying a Connector* page:

.. Under *Authentication*, select the authentication option that matches how you set up Azure permissions:
+
* Select *Azure user account* to log in to your Microsoft account, which should have the required permissions.
+
The form is owned and hosted by Microsoft. Your credentials are not provided to NetApp.
+
TIP: If you're already logged in to an Azure account, then BlueXP will automatically use that account. If you have multiple accounts, then you might need to log out first to ensure that you're using the right account.

* Select *Active Directory service principal* to enter information about the Azure Active Directory service principal that grants the required permissions:
+
** Application (client) ID
** Directory (tenant) ID
** Client Secret

+
link:task-set-up-permissions-azure.html[Learn how to obtain these values for a service principal].

. Follow the steps in the wizard to create the Connector:

* *VM Authentication*: Choose an Azure subscription, a location, a new resource group or an existing resource group, and then choose an authentication method.

* *Details*: Enter a name for the instance, specify tags, and choose whether you want BlueXP to create a new role that has the required permissions, or if you want to select an existing role that you set up with link:reference-permissions-azure.html[the required permissions].
+
Note that you can choose the subscriptions associated with this role. Each subscription that you choose provides the Connector with permissions to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in those subscriptions.

* *Network*: Choose a VNet and subnet, whether to enable a public IP address, and optionally specify a proxy configuration.

* *Security Group*: Choose whether to create a new security group or whether to select an existing security group that allows inbound HTTP, HTTPS, and SSH access.

* *Review*: Review your selections to verify that your set up is correct.

. Click *Add*.
+
The virtual machine should be ready in about 7 minutes. You should stay on the page until the process is complete.

.Result

After the process is complete, the Connector is available for use from BlueXP.
--

.Azure Marketplace
--
.Steps

. Go to the NetApp Connector VM page in the Azure Marketplace.
+
https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manager[Azure Marketplace page for commercial regions^]

. Click *Get it now* and then click *Continue*.

. From the Azure portal, click *Create* and follow the steps to configure the virtual machine.
+
Note the following as you configure the VM:

* The Connector can perform optimally with either HDD or SSD disks.

* Choose a VM size that meets CPU and RAM requirements. We recommend DS3 v2.
+
link:reference-host-requirements-azure[Review the VM requirements].

* For the network security group, the Connector requires inbound connections using SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.
+
link:reference-ports-azure.html[Learn more about security group rules for the Connector].

* Under *Management*, enable *System assigned managed identity* for the Connector VM by selecting *On*.
+
This setting is important because a managed identity allows the Connector virtual machine to identify itself to Azure Active Directory without providing any credentials. After you're done,you'll need to assign the custom role that you created to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[Learn more about managed identities for Azure resources^].

. On the *Review + create* page, review your selections and click *Create* to start the deployment.
+
Azure deploys the virtual machine with the specified settings. The virtual machine and Connector software should be running in approximately five minutes.

. Set up permissions for the Connector VM:

.. In the Azure portal, go to the *Access Control (IAM)* page for the Connector VM.
.. Click *Add > Add role assignment* to assign the custom role that you created for the Connector. 
+
Be sure to assign the role to the system-assigned managed identity that you enabled for the Connector VM.
+
This step is required to provide the Connector with permissions so that you can use BlueXP services.
+
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal#step-2-open-the-add-role-assignment-page[Microsoft Azure documentation: Assign Azure roles using the Azure portal^]

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector virtual machine and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. After you log in, set up the Connector:
.. Specify the BlueXP account to associate with the Connector.
.. Enter a name for the system.
.. Under *Are you running in a secured environment?* keep restricted mode disabled.
+
You should keep restricted mode disabled because these steps describe how to use BlueXP in standard mode from the SaaS website. You should enable restricted mode only if you have a secure environment and want to disconnect this account from BlueXP backend services. If that's the case, link:task-quick-start-restricted-mode.html[follow steps to get started with BlueXP in restricted mode].
.. Click *Let's start*.

The Connector is now installed and is set up with your BlueXP account.

.What's next?

Add permissions to the Connector.
--

.Manual install
--
.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS or if the proxy is an intercepting proxy.

* A managed identity enabled on the VM in Azure so that you can provide the required Azure permissions through a custom role.
+
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm[Microsoft Azure documentation: Configure managed identities for Azure resources on a VM using the Azure portal^]

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. If the _http_proxy_ or _https_proxy_ system variables are set on the host, remove them:
+
[source,cli]
unset http_proxy
unset https_proxy
+
If you don't remove these system variables, the installation will fail.

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the "online" Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud. A separate "offline" installer is available for the Connector, but it's only supported with private mode deployments.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-<version>

+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-<version> --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.26 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. This parameter is required only if you specify an HTTPS proxy server or if the proxy is an intercepting proxy.

. Wait for the installation to complete.
+
At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector virtual machine and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. After you log in, set up the Connector:
.. Specify the BlueXP account to associate with the Connector.
.. Enter a name for the system.
.. Under *Are you running in a secured environment?* keep restricted mode disabled.
+
You should keep restricted mode disabled because these steps describe how to use BlueXP in standard mode from the SaaS website. You should enable restricted mode only if you have a secure environment and want to disconnect this account from BlueXP backend services. If that's the case, link:task-quick-start-restricted-mode.html[follow steps to get started with BlueXP in restricted mode].
.. Click *Let's start*.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and is set up with your BlueXP account.

.What's next?

Add permissions to the Connector.
--

====

// end tabbed area

== Add permissions to the Connector

If you installed the Connector from the Azure Marketplace, you need to assign the custom role that you created to the Connector VM in Azure.

If you manually installed the Connector software, then you need to provide BlueXP with details about the Azure AD service principal that you created.

These steps don't apply if you deployed the Connector directly from BlueXP because BlueXP assigns the required permissions during deployment. 

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Custom role
--
Go to the Azure portal and assign the Azure custom role to the Connector virtual machine for one or more subscriptions.

.Steps

. From the Azure Portal, open the *Subscriptions* service and select your subscription.

. Click *Access control (IAM)* > *Add* > *Add role assignment*.

. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP Operator is the default name provided in the BlueXP policy. If you chose a different name for the role, then select that name instead.

. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

.. Assign access to a *Managed identity*.

.. Click *Select members*, select the subscription in which the Connector virtual machine was created, choose *Virtual machine*, and then select the Connector virtual machine.

.. Click *Select*.

.. Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from additional subscriptions, switch to that subscription and then repeat these steps.

.Result
BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in Azure on your behalf.

.What's next?

Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] to start using the Connector with BlueXP.
--

.Service principal
--
.Steps

. Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] and log in.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Click *Add Credentials* and follow the steps in the wizard.

.. *Credentials Location*: Select *Microsoft Azure > Connector*.

.. *Define Credentials*: Enter information about the Azure Active Directory service principal that grants the required permissions:
+
* Application (client) ID
* Directory (tenant) ID
* Client Secret

.. *Marketplace Subscription*: Associate a Marketplace subscription with these credentials by subscribing now or by selecting an existing subscription.

.. *Review*: Confirm the details about the new credentials and click *Add*.

.Result

BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in Azure on your behalf.
--

====
// end tabbed area

Commit message:

Connectors aren't required to get started

task-install-connector-azure.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-install-connector-azure.html
keywords: aws networking, networking, connector networking, ports, proxy server, outbound internet, endpoints, urls, permissions, cloud permission, aws permissions, iam role, keys, aws keys, aws marketplace, marketplace install, manuall install, connector installer
summary: Deploy a Connector in AWS so that BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.
---

= Create the Connector in Azure
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Create the Connector in Microsoft Azure and then set it up for use with BlueXP.

== Install the Connector

Create the Connector directly from the BlueXP user interface, from the Azure Marketplace, or by installing the software on your own Linux host.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.BlueXP
--
.What you'll need

* An Azure subscription.

* A VNet and subnet in your Azure region of choice.

* Details about a proxy server, if your organization requires a proxy for all outgoing internet traffic:

** IP address
** Credentials
** HTTPS certificate

* If you don't want BlueXP to automatically create an Azure role for the Connector, then you'll need to create your own link:reference-permissions-azure.html[using the policy on this page].
+
These permissions are for the Connector instance itself. It's a different set of permissions than what you previously set up to simply deploy the Connector.

.Steps

. If you're creating your first Working Environment, click *Add Working Environment* and follow the prompts. Otherwise, click the *Connector* drop-down and select *Add Connector*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_add.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Add Connector action.]

. Choose *Microsoft Azure* as your cloud provider.

. On the *Deploying a Connector* page:

.. Under *Authentication*, select the authentication option that matches how you set up Azure permissions:
+
* Select *Azure user account* to log in to your Microsoft account, which should have the required permissions.
+
The form is owned and hosted by Microsoft. Your credentials are not provided to NetApp.
+
TIP: If you're already logged in to an Azure account, then BlueXP will automatically use that account. If you have multiple accounts, then you might need to log out first to ensure that you're using the right account.

* Select *Active Directory service principal* to enter information about the Azure Active Directory service principal that grants the required permissions:
+
** Application (client) ID
** Directory (tenant) ID
** Client Secret

+
link:task-set-up-permissions-azure.html[Learn how to obtain these values for a service principal].

. Follow the steps in the wizard to create the Connector:

* *VM Authentication*: Choose an Azure subscription, a location, a new resource group or an existing resource group, and then choose an authentication method.

* *Details*: Enter a name for the instance, specify tags, and choose whether you want BlueXP to create a new role that has the required permissions, or if you want to select an existing role that you set up with link:reference-permissions-azure.html[the required permissions].
+
Note that you can choose the subscriptions associated with this role. Each subscription that you choose provides the Connector with permissions to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in those subscriptions.

* *Network*: Choose a VNet and subnet, whether to enable a public IP address, and optionally specify a proxy configuration.

* *Security Group*: Choose whether to create a new security group or whether to select an existing security group that allows inbound HTTP, HTTPS, and SSH access.

* *Review*: Review your selections to verify that your set up is correct.

. Click *Add*.
+
The virtual machine should be ready in about 7 minutes. You should stay on the page until the process is complete.

.Result

After the process is complete, the Connector is available for use from BlueXP.
--

.Azure Marketplace
--
.Steps

. Go to the NetApp Connector VM page in the Azure Marketplace.
+
https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manager[Azure Marketplace page for commercial regions^]

. Click *Get it now* and then click *Continue*.

. From the Azure portal, click *Create* and follow the steps to configure the virtual machine.
+
Note the following as you configure the VM:

* The Connector can perform optimally with either HDD or SSD disks.

* Choose a VM size that meets CPU and RAM requirements. We recommend DS3 v2.
+
link:reference-host-requirements-azure[Review the VM requirements].

* For the network security group, the Connector requires inbound connections using SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.
+
link:reference-ports-azure.html[Learn more about security group rules for the Connector].

* Under *Management*, enable *System assigned managed identity* for the Connector VM by selecting *On*.
+
This setting is important because a managed identity allows the Connector virtual machine to identify itself to Azure Active Directory without providing any credentials. After you're done,you'll need to assign the custom role that you created to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[Learn more about managed identities for Azure resources^].

. On the *Review + create* page, review your selections and click *Create* to start the deployment.
+
Azure deploys the virtual machine with the specified settings. The virtual machine and Connector software should be running in approximately five minutes.

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector virtual machine and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. After you log in, set up the Connector:
.. Specify the BlueXP account to associate with the Connector.
.. Enter a name for the system.
.. Under *Are you running in a secured environment?* keep restricted mode disabled.
+
You should keep restricted mode disabled because these steps describe how to use BlueXP in standard mode from the SaaS website. You should enable restricted mode only if you have a secure environment and want to disconnect this account from BlueXP backend services. If that's the case, link:task-quick-start-restricted-mode.html[follow steps to get started with BlueXP in restricted mode].
.. Click *Let's start*.

The Connector is now installed and is set up with your BlueXP account.

.What's next?

Add permissions to the Connector.
--

.Manual install
--
.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS or if the proxy is an intercepting proxy.

* A managed identity enabled on the VM in Azure so that you can provide the required Azure permissions through a custom role.
+
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm[Microsoft Azure documentation: Configure managed identities for Azure resources on a VM using the Azure portal^]

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. If the _http_proxy_ or _https_proxy_ system variables are set on the host, remove them:
+
[source,cli]
unset http_proxy
unset https_proxy
+
If you don't remove these system variables, the installation will fail.

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the "online" Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud. A separate "offline" installer is available for the Connector, but it's only supported with private mode deployments.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-<version>

+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-<version> --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.26 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. This parameter is required only if you specify an HTTPS proxy server or if the proxy is an intercepting proxy.

. Wait for the installation to complete.
+
At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector virtual machine and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. After you log in, set up the Connector:
.. Specify the BlueXP account to associate with the Connector.
.. Enter a name for the system.
.. Under *Are you running in a secured environment?* keep restricted mode disabled.
+
You should keep restricted mode disabled because these steps describe how to use BlueXP in standard mode from the SaaS website. You should enable restricted mode only if you have a secure environment and want to disconnect this account from BlueXP backend services. If that's the case, link:task-quick-start-restricted-mode.html[follow steps to get started with BlueXP in restricted mode].
.. Click *Let's start*.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and is set up with your BlueXP account.

.What's next?

Add permissions to the Connector.
--

====

// end tabbed area

== Add permissions to the Connector

After you create the Connector from the Azure Marketplace or by manually installing the software, you need to provide the Connector with the permissions that you previously set up:

* For Azure Marketplace deployments, you need to assign the custom role to the Connector VM in Azure.

* For manual installations, you need to provide BlueXP with details about the Azure AD service principal.

These steps don't apply if you deployed the Connector directly from BlueXP because BlueXP assigns the required permissions during deployment. 

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.Custom role
--
Go to the Azure portal and assign the Azure custom role to the Connector virtual machine for one or more subscriptions.

.Steps

. From the Azure Portal, open the *Subscriptions* service and select your subscription.

. Click *Access control (IAM)* > *Add* > *Add role assignment*.

. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP Operator is the default name provided in the BlueXP policy. If you chose a different name for the role, then select that name instead.

. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

.. Assign access to a *Managed identity*.

.. Click *Select members*, select the subscription in which the Connector virtual machine was created, choose *Virtual machine*, and then select the Connector virtual machine.

.. Click *Select*.

.. Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from additional subscriptions, switch to that subscription and then repeat these steps.

.Result
BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in Azure on your behalf.

.What's next?

Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] to start using the Connector with BlueXP.
--

.Service principal
--
.Steps

. Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] and log in.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Click *Add Credentials* and follow the steps in the wizard.

.. *Credentials Location*: Select *Microsoft Azure > Connector*.

.. *Define Credentials*: Enter information about the Azure Active Directory service principal that grants the required permissions:
+
* Application (client) ID
* Directory (tenant) ID
* Client Secret

.. *Marketplace Subscription*: Associate a Marketplace subscription with these credentials by subscribing now or by selecting an existing subscription.

.. *Review*: Confirm the details about the new credentials and click *Add*.

.Result

BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in Azure on your behalf.
--

====
// end tabbed area
