task-install-restricted-mode.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-install-restricted-mode.html
keywords: government region, gov, govcloud, connector, sovereign cloud
summary: To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to deploy a Connector and then set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector.
---

= Deploy the Connector in restricted mode
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to install the Connector, set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector, and then provide cloud permissions.

== Install the Connector

Install the Connector from your cloud provider's marketplace or by manually installing the software on your own Linux host.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS Commercial Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B018REK8QG[BlueXP page on the AWS Marketplace^]

. On the Marketplace page, click *Continue to Subscribe* and then click *Continue to Configuration*.
+
image:screenshot-subscribe-aws.png[A screenshot that shows the Continue to Subscribe and Continue to Configuration buttons on the AWS Marketplace.]

. Change any of the default options and click *Continue to Launch*.

. Under *Choose Action*, select *Launch through EC2* and then click *Launch*.
+
These steps describe how to launch the instance from the EC2 Console because the console enables you to attach an IAM role to the Connector instance. This isn't possible using the *Launch from Website* action.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Name and tags*: Enter a name and tags for the instance.

* *Application and OS Image*: Skip this section. The Connector AMI is already selected.

* *Instance type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Key pair (login)*: Select the key pair that you want to use to securely connect to the instance.

* *Network settings*: Edit the network settings as needed:
+
** Choose the desired VPC and subnet.
** Specify whether the instance should have a public IP address.
** Specify firewall settings that enable the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Configure storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Advanced details*: Under *IAM instance profile*, choose the IAM role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions].

* *Summary*: Review the summary and click *Launch instance*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.AWS Gov Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the BlueXP offering in the AWS Marketplace.

.. Open the EC2 service and select *Launch instance*.
.. Select *AWS Marketplace*.
.. Search for BlueXP and select the offering.
+
image:screenshot-gov-cloud-mktp.png[A screenshot that shows the BlueXP offering after searching for it in the AWS Marketplace]

.. Click *Continue*.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Choose an Instance Type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Configure Instance Details*: Select a VPC and subnet, choose the IAM role that you created in step 1, enable termination protection (recommended), and choose any other configuration options that meet your requirements.
+
image:screenshot_aws_iam_role.gif[A screenshot that shows fields on the Configure Instance page in AWS. The IAM role that you should have created in step 1 is selected.]

* *Add Storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Add Tags*: Enter tags for the instance, if desired.

* *Configure Security Group*: Specify the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Review*: Review your selections and click *Launch*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.Azure Marketplace
--
.What you'll need

* A VNet and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]

* An Azure custom role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up Azure permissions]

.Steps

. Go to the NetApp Connector VM page in the Azure Marketplace.
+
* https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manager[Azure Marketplace page for commercial regions^]
* https://portal.azure.us/#create/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manageroccm-byol[Azure Marketplace page for Azure Government regions^]

. Click *Get it now* and then click *Continue*.

. From the Azure portal, click *Create* and follow the steps to configure the virtual machine.
+
Note the following as you configure the VM:

* The Connector can perform optimally with either HDD or SSD disks.

* Choose a VM size that meets CPU and RAM requirements. We recommend DS3 v2.

* For the network security group, the Connector requires inbound connections using SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements].

* Under *Management*, enable *System assigned managed identity* for the Connector by selecting *On*.
+
This setting is important because a managed identity allows the Connector virtual machine to identify itself to Azure Active Directory without providing any credentials. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[Learn more about managed identities for Azure resources^].

. On the *Review + create* page, review your selections and click *Create* to start the deployment.

.Result

Azure deploys the virtual machine with the specified settings. The virtual machine and Connector software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.
--

.Manual install
--
.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS or if the proxy is an intercepting proxy.

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. If the _http_proxy_ or _https_proxy_ system variables are set on the host, remove them:
+
[source,cli]
unset http_proxy
unset https_proxy
+
If you don't remove these system variables, the installation will fail.

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the "online" Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud. A separate "offline" installer is available for the Connector, but it's only supported with private mode deployments.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-<version>

+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-<version> --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.26 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. h

.Result

The Connector is now installed. At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

====
// end tabbed area

== Set up BlueXP

When you access the BlueXP console for the first time, you'll be prompted to choose an account to associate the Connector with and you'll need to enable restricted mode.

.Steps

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector instance and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. Sign up or log in to BlueXP.

. After you're logged in, set up BlueXP:

.. Enter a name for the Connector.

.. Enter a name for a new BlueXP account or select an existing account.
+
You can select an existing account if your log in is already associated with a BlueXP account.

.. Select *Are you running in a secured environment?*

.. Select *Enable restricted mode on this account*.
+
If you deployed the Connector in a Government region, the checkbox is already enabled and can't be changed. This is because restricted mode is the only mode supported in Government regions.
+
image:screenshot-restricted-mode.png["A screenshot that shows the welcome page where you need to enter a Connector name, account name, and can enable restricted mode on this account."]

.. Click *Let's start*.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and set up with your BlueXP account. All users need to access BlueXP using the IP address of the Connector instance.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.

== Provide permissions to BlueXP

If you deployed the Connector from the Azure Marketplace or if you manually installed the Connector software, you need to provide the permissions that you previously set up so that you can use BlueXP services.

These steps don't apply if you deployed the Connector from the AWS Marketplace because you chose the required IAM role during deployment. 

link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to prepare cloud permissions].

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS IAM role
--
Attach the IAM role that you previously created to the EC2 instance where you installed the Connector.

These steps apply only if you manually installed the Connector in AWS. For AWS Marketplace deployments, you already associated the Connector instance with an IAM role that includes the required permissions.

.Steps

. Go to the Amazon EC2 console.

. Select *Instances*.

. Select the Connector instance.

. Select *Actions > Security > Modify IAM role*.

. Select the IAM role and click *Update IAM role*.
--

AWS access key
--
Provide BlueXP with the AWS access key for an IAM user that has the required permissions.

.Steps

. Ensure that the correct Connector is currently selected in BlueXP.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Click *Add Credentials* and follow the steps in the wizard.

.. *Credentials Location*: Select *Amazon Web Services > Connector*.

.. *Define Credentials*: Enter an AWS access key and secret key.

.. *Marketplace Subscription*: Associate a Marketplace subscription with these credentials by subscribing now or by selecting an existing subscription.

.. *Review*: Confirm the details about the new credentials and click *Add*.

.Result

BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in AWS on your behalf.
--

.Azure role
--
Go to the Azure portal and assign the Azure custom role to the Connector virtual machine for one or more subscriptions.

.Steps

. From the Azure Portal, open the *Subscriptions* service and select your subscription.

. Click *Access control (IAM)* > *Add* > *Add role assignment*.

. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP Operator is the default name provided in the BlueXP policy. If you chose a different name for the role, then select that name instead.

. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

.. Assign access to a *Managed identity*.

.. Click *Select members*, select the subscription in which the Connector virtual machine was created, choose *Virtual machine*, and then select the Connector virtual machine.

.. Click *Select*.

.. Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from additional subscriptions, switch to that subscription and then repeat these steps.
--

.Azure service principal
--
Provide BlueXP with the credentials for the Azure service principal that you previously setup.

.Steps

. Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] and log in.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Click *Add Credentials* and follow the steps in the wizard.

.. *Credentials Location*: Select *Microsoft Azure > Connector*.

.. *Define Credentials*: Enter information about the Azure Active Directory service principal that grants the required permissions:
+
* Application (client) ID
* Directory (tenant) ID
* Client Secret

.. *Marketplace Subscription*: Associate a Marketplace subscription with these credentials by subscribing now or by selecting an existing subscription.

.. *Review*: Confirm the details about the new credentials and click *Add*.

.Result

BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in Azure on your behalf.
--

.Google Cloud service account
--
Associate the service account with the Connector VM.

.Steps

. Go to the Google Cloud portal and assign the service account to the Connector VM instance.
+
https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#changeserviceaccountandscopes[Google Cloud documentation: Changing the service account and access scopes for an instance^]

. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in other projects, grant access by adding the service account with the BlueXP role to that project. You'll need to repeat this step for each project.
--

====
// end tabbed area

Commit message:

Restricted mode must be set at account creation

task-install-restricted-mode.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-install-restricted-mode.html
keywords: government region, gov, govcloud, connector, sovereign cloud
summary: To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to deploy a Connector and then set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector.
---

= Deploy the Connector in restricted mode
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to install the Connector, set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector, and then provide cloud permissions.

== Install the Connector

Install the Connector from your cloud provider's marketplace or by manually installing the software on your own Linux host.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS Commercial Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B018REK8QG[BlueXP page on the AWS Marketplace^]

. On the Marketplace page, click *Continue to Subscribe* and then click *Continue to Configuration*.
+
image:screenshot-subscribe-aws.png[A screenshot that shows the Continue to Subscribe and Continue to Configuration buttons on the AWS Marketplace.]

. Change any of the default options and click *Continue to Launch*.

. Under *Choose Action*, select *Launch through EC2* and then click *Launch*.
+
These steps describe how to launch the instance from the EC2 Console because the console enables you to attach an IAM role to the Connector instance. This isn't possible using the *Launch from Website* action.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Name and tags*: Enter a name and tags for the instance.

* *Application and OS Image*: Skip this section. The Connector AMI is already selected.

* *Instance type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Key pair (login)*: Select the key pair that you want to use to securely connect to the instance.

* *Network settings*: Edit the network settings as needed:
+
** Choose the desired VPC and subnet.
** Specify whether the instance should have a public IP address.
** Specify firewall settings that enable the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Configure storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Advanced details*: Under *IAM instance profile*, choose the IAM role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions].

* *Summary*: Review the summary and click *Launch instance*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.AWS Gov Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the BlueXP offering in the AWS Marketplace.

.. Open the EC2 service and select *Launch instance*.
.. Select *AWS Marketplace*.
.. Search for BlueXP and select the offering.
+
image:screenshot-gov-cloud-mktp.png[A screenshot that shows the BlueXP offering after searching for it in the AWS Marketplace]

.. Click *Continue*.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Choose an Instance Type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Configure Instance Details*: Select a VPC and subnet, choose the IAM role that you created in step 1, enable termination protection (recommended), and choose any other configuration options that meet your requirements.
+
image:screenshot_aws_iam_role.gif[A screenshot that shows fields on the Configure Instance page in AWS. The IAM role that you should have created in step 1 is selected.]

* *Add Storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Add Tags*: Enter tags for the instance, if desired.

* *Configure Security Group*: Specify the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Review*: Review your selections and click *Launch*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.Azure Marketplace
--
.What you'll need

* A VNet and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]

* An Azure custom role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up Azure permissions]

.Steps

. Go to the NetApp Connector VM page in the Azure Marketplace.
+
* https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manager[Azure Marketplace page for commercial regions^]
* https://portal.azure.us/#create/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manageroccm-byol[Azure Marketplace page for Azure Government regions^]

. Click *Get it now* and then click *Continue*.

. From the Azure portal, click *Create* and follow the steps to configure the virtual machine.
+
Note the following as you configure the VM:

* The Connector can perform optimally with either HDD or SSD disks.

* Choose a VM size that meets CPU and RAM requirements. We recommend DS3 v2.

* For the network security group, the Connector requires inbound connections using SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements].

* Under *Management*, enable *System assigned managed identity* for the Connector by selecting *On*.
+
This setting is important because a managed identity allows the Connector virtual machine to identify itself to Azure Active Directory without providing any credentials. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[Learn more about managed identities for Azure resources^].

. On the *Review + create* page, review your selections and click *Create* to start the deployment.

.Result

Azure deploys the virtual machine with the specified settings. The virtual machine and Connector software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.
--

.Manual install
--
.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS or if the proxy is an intercepting proxy.

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. If the _http_proxy_ or _https_proxy_ system variables are set on the host, remove them:
+
[source,cli]
unset http_proxy
unset https_proxy
+
If you don't remove these system variables, the installation will fail.

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the "online" Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud. A separate "offline" installer is available for the Connector, but it's only supported with private mode deployments.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-<version>

+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-<version> --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.26 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. h

.Result

The Connector is now installed. At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

====
// end tabbed area

== Set up BlueXP

When you access the BlueXP console for the first time, you'll be prompted to choose an account to associate the Connector with and you'll need to enable restricted mode.

.Steps

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector instance and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. Sign up or log in to BlueXP.

. After you're logged in, set up BlueXP:

.. Enter a name for the Connector.

.. Enter a name for a new BlueXP account or select an existing account.
+
You can select an existing account if your log in is already associated with a BlueXP account.

.. Select *Are you running in a secured environment?*

.. Select *Enable restricted mode on this account*.
+
Note that you can't change this setting after BlueXP creates the account. You can't enable restricted mode later and you can't disable it later.
+
If you deployed the Connector in a Government region, the checkbox is already enabled and can't be changed. This is because restricted mode is the only mode supported in Government regions.
+
image:screenshot-restricted-mode.png["A screenshot that shows the welcome page where you need to enter a Connector name, account name, and can enable restricted mode on this account."]

.. Click *Let's start*.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and set up with your BlueXP account. All users need to access BlueXP using the IP address of the Connector instance.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.

== Provide permissions to BlueXP

If you deployed the Connector from the Azure Marketplace or if you manually installed the Connector software, you need to provide the permissions that you previously set up so that you can use BlueXP services.

These steps don't apply if you deployed the Connector from the AWS Marketplace because you chose the required IAM role during deployment. 

link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to prepare cloud permissions].

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS IAM role
--
Attach the IAM role that you previously created to the EC2 instance where you installed the Connector.

These steps apply only if you manually installed the Connector in AWS. For AWS Marketplace deployments, you already associated the Connector instance with an IAM role that includes the required permissions.

.Steps

. Go to the Amazon EC2 console.

. Select *Instances*.

. Select the Connector instance.

. Select *Actions > Security > Modify IAM role*.

. Select the IAM role and click *Update IAM role*.
--

AWS access key
--
Provide BlueXP with the AWS access key for an IAM user that has the required permissions.

.Steps

. Ensure that the correct Connector is currently selected in BlueXP.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Click *Add Credentials* and follow the steps in the wizard.

.. *Credentials Location*: Select *Amazon Web Services > Connector*.

.. *Define Credentials*: Enter an AWS access key and secret key.

.. *Marketplace Subscription*: Associate a Marketplace subscription with these credentials by subscribing now or by selecting an existing subscription.

.. *Review*: Confirm the details about the new credentials and click *Add*.

.Result

BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in AWS on your behalf.
--

.Azure role
--
Go to the Azure portal and assign the Azure custom role to the Connector virtual machine for one or more subscriptions.

.Steps

. From the Azure Portal, open the *Subscriptions* service and select your subscription.

. Click *Access control (IAM)* > *Add* > *Add role assignment*.

. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP Operator is the default name provided in the BlueXP policy. If you chose a different name for the role, then select that name instead.

. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

.. Assign access to a *Managed identity*.

.. Click *Select members*, select the subscription in which the Connector virtual machine was created, choose *Virtual machine*, and then select the Connector virtual machine.

.. Click *Select*.

.. Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from additional subscriptions, switch to that subscription and then repeat these steps.
--

.Azure service principal
--
Provide BlueXP with the credentials for the Azure service principal that you previously setup.

.Steps

. Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] and log in.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Credentials*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Click *Add Credentials* and follow the steps in the wizard.

.. *Credentials Location*: Select *Microsoft Azure > Connector*.

.. *Define Credentials*: Enter information about the Azure Active Directory service principal that grants the required permissions:
+
* Application (client) ID
* Directory (tenant) ID
* Client Secret

.. *Marketplace Subscription*: Associate a Marketplace subscription with these credentials by subscribing now or by selecting an existing subscription.

.. *Review*: Confirm the details about the new credentials and click *Add*.

.Result

BlueXP now has the permissions that it needs to perform actions in Azure on your behalf.
--

.Google Cloud service account
--
Associate the service account with the Connector VM.

.Steps

. Go to the Google Cloud portal and assign the service account to the Connector VM instance.
+
https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#changeserviceaccountandscopes[Google Cloud documentation: Changing the service account and access scopes for an instance^]

. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in other projects, grant access by adding the service account with the BlueXP role to that project. You'll need to repeat this step for each project.
--

====
// end tabbed area
