task-install-connector-onprem-no-internet.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-install-connector-onprem-no-internet.html
keywords: connector, dark site, install dark site, install connector no internet, install connector on prem
summary: You can install the Connector in a location that has complete isolation from the internet, either on-premises or in a cloud region. You can then use the BlueXP services that are supported in that environment.
---

= Install the Connector in a location with no internet access
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can install the Connector in a location that has complete isolation from the internet, either on premises or in a cloud region. You can then use the BlueXP services that are supported in that environment.

== On premises overview

In an on-premises environment without internet, you can use BlueXP to discover on-prem ONTAP clusters, replicate data between them, back up volumes using Cloud Backup, and scan them with Cloud Data Sense. No other BlueXP services are supported in this type of deployment, except for the Digital Wallet.

== Cloud overview

In a cloud region without internet, you can use BlueXP to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems and to discover on-premises ONTAP clusters (if there's a connection from your cloud environment to on your on-premises environment). No other BlueXP services are supported in this type of deployment, except for the Digital Wallet.

The cloud region can be a region for secure US agencies like AWS C2S/SC2S, Azure IL6, or any commercial region.

These installation instructions are specifically for the use case described above. link:concept-connectors.html#how-to-create-a-connector[Learn about other ways to deploy a Connector].

== Verify host requirements

The Connector software must run on a host that meets specific operating system requirements, RAM requirements, port requirements, and so on.

A dedicated host is required::
The Connector is not supported on a host that is shared with other applications. The host must be a dedicated host.

CPU:: 4 cores or 4 vCPUs

RAM:: 14 GB

Supported operating systems::
* CentOS 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, and 7.9
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 8.6, and 8.7
+
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux system must be registered with Red Hat Subscription Management. If it is not registered, the system cannot access repositories to update required 3rd party software during Connector installation.
+
The Connector is supported on English-language versions of these operating systems.

Hypervisor:: A bare metal or hosted hypervisor that is certified to run CentOS or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
https://access.redhat.com/certified-hypervisors[Red Hat Solution: Which hypervisors are certified to run Red Hat Enterprise Linux?^]

Disk type:: An SSD is required

Disk space in /opt:: 100 GiB of space must be available

Disk space in /var:: 20 GiB of space must be available

Docker Engine:: Docker Engine version 19 or later is required on the host before you install the Connector. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[View installation instructions^]

== Install the Connector

After you verify that you have a supported Linux host, you can obtain the Connector software and then install it.

.Required privileges

Root privileges are required to install the Connector.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. Download the Connector installer for restricted networks without internet access from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^]

. Copy the installer to the Linux host.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x /path/Cloud-Manager-Connector-offline-<version>
+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Run the installation script:
+
[source,cli]
sudo /path/Cloud-Manager-Connector-offline-<version>
+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Open a web browser and enter https://_ipaddress_ where _ipaddress_ is the IP address of the Linux host.
+
You should see the following screen.
+
image:screenshot-onprem-darksite-welcome.png[A screenshot of the Welcome page that appears after you enter the IP address of the Connector into your web browser.]

. Click *Set Up New BlueXP* and follow the prompts to set up the system.

* *System Details*: Enter a name for the Connector and your company name.
+
image:screenshot-onprem-darksite-details.png[A screenshot of the System Details page that prompts you to enter the BlueXP name and Company name.]

* *Create Admin User*: Create the admin user for the system.
+
This user account runs locally on the system. There's no connection to the auth0 service available through BlueXP.

* *Review*: Review the details, accept the license agreement, and then click *Set Up*.

. Log in to BlueXP using the admin user that you just created.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and you can start using the BlueXP features that are available in a dark site deployment.

.What's next?

In an on-prem environment:

* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-ontap-onprem/task-discovering-ontap.html[Discover on-prem ONTAP clusters^]
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-replication/task-replicating-data.html[Replicate data between on-prem ONTAP clusters^]
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-backup-restore/task-backup-onprem-private-cloud.html[Back up on-prem ONTAP volume data to StorageGRID using Cloud Backup^]
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-data-sense/task-deploy-compliance-dark-site.html[Scan on-prem ONTAP volume data using Cloud Data Sense^]

In a cloud environment, you can https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-cloud-volumes-ontap/index.html[deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP^]

When new versions of the Connector software are available, they'll be posted to the NetApp Support Site. link:task-managing-connectors.html#upgrade-the-connector-on-prem-without-internet-access[Learn how to upgrade the Connector].

Commit message:

mention Backup support for CVO in dark commercial regions

task-install-connector-onprem-no-internet.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-install-connector-onprem-no-internet.html
keywords: connector, dark site, install dark site, install connector no internet, install connector on prem
summary: You can install the Connector in a location that has complete isolation from the internet, either on-premises or in a cloud region. You can then use the BlueXP services that are supported in that environment.
---

= Install the Connector in a location with no internet access
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
You can install the Connector in a location that has complete isolation from the internet, either on premises or in a cloud region. You can then use the BlueXP services that are supported in that environment.

== On premises overview

In an on-premises environment without internet, you can use BlueXP to discover on-prem ONTAP clusters, replicate data between them, back up volumes using Cloud Backup, and scan them with Cloud Data Sense. No other BlueXP services are supported in this type of deployment, except for the Digital Wallet.

== Cloud overview

In a cloud region without internet, you can use BlueXP to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems and to discover on-premises ONTAP clusters (if there's a connection from your cloud environment to on your on-premises environment). You can also use Cloud Backup to back up Cloud Volumes ONTAP volumes in AWS and Azure commercial regions (Backup is not supported in AWS and Azure secret regions at this time). No other BlueXP services are supported in this type of deployment, except for the Digital Wallet.

The cloud region can be a region for secure US agencies like AWS C2S/SC2S, Azure IL6, or any commercial region.

These installation instructions are specifically for the use case described above. link:concept-connectors.html#how-to-create-a-connector[Learn about other ways to deploy a Connector].

== Verify host requirements

The Connector software must run on a host that meets specific operating system requirements, RAM requirements, port requirements, and so on.

A dedicated host is required::
The Connector is not supported on a host that is shared with other applications. The host must be a dedicated host.

CPU:: 4 cores or 4 vCPUs

RAM:: 14 GB

Supported operating systems::
* CentOS 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, and 7.9
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.6, 7.7, 7.8, 7.9, 8.6, and 8.7
+
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux system must be registered with Red Hat Subscription Management. If it is not registered, the system cannot access repositories to update required 3rd party software during Connector installation.
+
The Connector is supported on English-language versions of these operating systems.

Hypervisor:: A bare metal or hosted hypervisor that is certified to run CentOS or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
https://access.redhat.com/certified-hypervisors[Red Hat Solution: Which hypervisors are certified to run Red Hat Enterprise Linux?^]

Disk type:: An SSD is required

Disk space in /opt:: 100 GiB of space must be available

Disk space in /var:: 20 GiB of space must be available

Docker Engine:: Docker Engine version 19 or later is required on the host before you install the Connector. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[View installation instructions^]

== Install the Connector

After you verify that you have a supported Linux host, you can obtain the Connector software and then install it.

.Required privileges

Root privileges are required to install the Connector.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. Download the Connector installer for restricted networks without internet access from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^]

. Copy the installer to the Linux host.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x /path/Cloud-Manager-Connector-offline-<version>
+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Run the installation script:
+
[source,cli]
sudo /path/Cloud-Manager-Connector-offline-<version>
+
Where <version> is the version of the Connector that you downloaded.

. Open a web browser and enter https://_ipaddress_ where _ipaddress_ is the IP address of the Linux host.
+
You should see the following screen.
+
image:screenshot-onprem-darksite-welcome.png[A screenshot of the Welcome page that appears after you enter the IP address of the Connector into your web browser.]

. Click *Set Up New BlueXP* and follow the prompts to set up the system.

* *System Details*: Enter a name for the Connector and your company name.
+
image:screenshot-onprem-darksite-details.png[A screenshot of the System Details page that prompts you to enter the BlueXP name and Company name.]

* *Create Admin User*: Create the admin user for the system.
+
This user account runs locally on the system. There's no connection to the auth0 service available through BlueXP.

* *Review*: Review the details, accept the license agreement, and then click *Set Up*.

. Log in to BlueXP using the admin user that you just created.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and you can start using the BlueXP features that are available in a dark site deployment.

.What's next?

In an on-prem environment:

* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-ontap-onprem/task-discovering-ontap.html[Discover on-prem ONTAP clusters^]
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-replication/task-replicating-data.html[Replicate data between on-prem ONTAP clusters^]
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-backup-restore/task-backup-onprem-private-cloud.html[Back up on-prem ONTAP volume data to StorageGRID using Cloud Backup^]
* https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-data-sense/task-deploy-compliance-dark-site.html[Scan on-prem ONTAP volume data using Cloud Data Sense^]

In a cloud environment, you can https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-cloud-volumes-ontap/index.html[deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP^]

When new versions of the Connector software are available, they'll be posted to the NetApp Support Site. link:task-managing-connectors.html#upgrade-the-connector-on-prem-without-internet-access[Learn how to upgrade the Connector].
