task-quick-start-standard-mode.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-quick-start-standard-mode.html
keywords: quick start, bluexp quick start, get started, get started with bluexp, standard mode, saas mode
summary: Get started with BlueXP in standard mode in a few steps.
---

= Quick start for BlueXP in standard mode
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Get started with BlueXP in standard mode in a few steps.

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-1.png[One] Sign up and create an account

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] and sign up. You'll be given the option to create an account, but you can skip that step if you're being invited to an existing account.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-sign-up-saas.html[Learn how to sign up and create an account].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-2.png[Two] Create a Connector

[role="quick-margin-para"]
In most cases, a BlueXP Account Admin will need to create a Connector in your cloud or on-premises network. The Connector is NetApp software that enables BlueXP to manage resources and processes within your hybrid cloud environment.

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* link:concept-connectors.html[Learn more about when Connectors are required and how they work]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-aws.html[Learn how to create a Connector in AWS]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-azure.html[Learn how to create a Connector in Azure]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-google.html[Learn how to create a Connector in Google Cloud]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-on-prem.html[Learn how to create a Connector on premises]

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Note that if you want to use BlueXP services to manage storage and data in Google Cloud, then the Connector must be running in Google Cloud.

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-3.png[Three] Subscribe to BlueXP

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Subscribe to BlueXP from your cloud provider's marketplace to pay for BlueXP services at an hourly rate (PAYGO) or through an annual contract.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-subscribe-standard-mode.html[Learn how to subscribe to BlueXP].

Commit message:

Connectors aren't required to get started

task-quick-start-standard-mode.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-quick-start-standard-mode.html
keywords: quick start, bluexp quick start, get started, get started with bluexp, standard mode, saas mode
summary: Get started with BlueXP in standard mode in a few steps.
---

= Quick start for BlueXP in standard mode
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Get started with BlueXP in standard mode in a few steps.

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-1.png[One] Sign up and create an account

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Go to the https://console.bluexp.netapp.com[BlueXP console^] and sign up. You'll be given the option to create an account, but you can skip that step if you're being invited to an existing account.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
At this point, you're logged in and can start using several BlueXP services like Digital Advisor, Amazon FSx for ONTAP, Azure NetApp Files, and more.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-sign-up-saas.html[Learn how to sign up and create an account].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-2.png[Two] Create a Connector

[role="quick-margin-para"]
You don't need a Connector to get started with BlueXP, but you can create a Connector to unlock all BlueXP features and services. The Connector is NetApp software that enables BlueXP to manage resources and processes within your hybrid cloud environment.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
A BlueXP Account Admin can create a Connector in your cloud or on-premises network.

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* link:concept-connectors.html[Learn more about when Connectors are required and how they work]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-aws.html[Learn how to create a Connector in AWS]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-azure.html[Learn how to create a Connector in Azure]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-google.html[Learn how to create a Connector in Google Cloud]
* link:task-quick-start-connector-on-prem.html[Learn how to create a Connector on premises]

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Note that if you want to use BlueXP services to manage storage and data in Google Cloud, then the Connector must be running in Google Cloud.

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-3.png[Three] Subscribe to BlueXP

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Subscribe to BlueXP from your cloud provider's marketplace to pay for BlueXP services at an hourly rate (PAYGO) or through an annual contract.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-subscribe-standard-mode.html[Learn how to subscribe to BlueXP].
