task-set-up-permissions-on-prem.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-set-up-permissions-on-prem.html
keywords: aws networking, networking, connector networking, ports, proxy server, outbound internet, endpoints, urls, permissions, cloud permission, aws permissions, iam role, keys, aws keys, aws marketplace, marketplace install, manuall install, connector installer
summary: Deploy a Connector in AWS so that BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.
---

= Set up cloud permissions
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Content.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS
--
When the Connector is installed on premises, you need to provide BlueXP with AWS permissions by adding access keys for an IAM user who has the required permissions. 

You must use this authentication method if the Connector is installed on premises. You can't use an IAM role.

.Steps

. From the IAM console, create policies by copying and pasting the contents of link:reference-permissions-aws.html[the IAM policies for the Connector].
+
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_create.html[AWS Documentation: Creating IAM Policies^]

. Attach the policies to an IAM user.
+
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create.html[AWS Documentation: Creating IAM Roles^]
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_manage-attach-detach.html[AWS Documentation: Adding and Removing IAM Policies^]

. Ensure that the user has access keys that you can add to BlueXP after you install the Connector.

.Result

The account now has the required permissions. <<add-the-credentials,You can now add the credentials to a Connector>>.
--

.Azure
--
When the Connector is installed on premises, you need to provide BlueXP with Azure permissions by setting up a service principal in Azure Active Directory and obtaining the Azure credentials that BlueXP needs.

.Create an Azure Active Directory application for role-based access control

. Ensure that you have permissions in Azure to create an Active Directory application and to assign the application to a role. 
+
For details, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#required-permissions/[Microsoft Azure Documentation: Required permissions^].

. From the Azure portal, open the *Azure Active Directory* service.
+
image:screenshot_azure_ad.gif[Shows the Active Directory service in Microsoft Azure.]

. In the menu, click *App registrations*.

. Click *New registration*.

. Specify details about the application:

* *Name*: Enter a name for the application.
* *Account type*: Select an account type (any will work with BlueXP).
* *Redirect URI*: You can leave this field blank.

. Click *Register*.
+
You've created the AD application and service principal.

.Assign the application to a role

. Create a custom role:

.. Copy the contents of the link:reference-permissions-azure.html[custom role permissions for the Connector] and save them in a JSON file.

.. Modify the JSON file by adding Azure subscription IDs to the assignable scope.
+
You should add the ID for each Azure subscription from which users will create Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems.
+
*Example*
+
[source,json]
"AssignableScopes": [
"/subscriptions/d333af45-0d07-4154-943d-c25fbzzzzzzz",
"/subscriptions/54b91999-b3e6-4599-908e-416e0zzzzzzz",
"/subscriptions/398e471c-3b42-4ae7-9b59-ce5bbzzzzzzz"

.. Use the JSON file to create a custom role in Azure.
+
The following steps describe how to create the role by using Bash in Azure Cloud Shell.
+
* Start https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-shell/overview[Azure Cloud Shell^] and choose the Bash environment.

* Upload the JSON file.
+
image:screenshot_azure_shell_upload.png[A screenshot of the Azure Cloud Shell where you can choose the option to upload a file.]

* Use the Azure CLI to create the custom role:
+
[source,azurecli]
az role definition create --role-definition Connector_Policy.json
+
You should now have a custom role called BlueXP Operator that you can assign to the Connector virtual machine.

. Assign the application to the role:

.. From the Azure portal, open the *Subscriptions* service.

.. Select the subscription.

.. Click *Access control (IAM) > Add > Add role assignment*.

.. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.

.. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

* Keep *User, group, or service principal* selected.
* Click *Select members*.
+
image:screenshot-azure-service-principal-role.png[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the Members tab when adding a role to an application.]
* Search for the name of the application.
+
Here's an example:
+
image:screenshot_azure_service_principal_role.png[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the Add role assignment form in the Azure portal.]

* Select the application and click *Select*.
* Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.
+
The service principal now has the required Azure permissions to deploy the Connector.
+
If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from multiple Azure subscriptions, then you must bind the service principal to each of those subscriptions. BlueXP enables you to select the subscription that you want to use when deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

.Add Windows Azure Service Management API permissions

. In the *Azure Active Directory* service, click *App registrations* and select the application.

. Click *API permissions > Add a permission*.

. Under *Microsoft APIs*, select *Azure Service Management*.
+
image:screenshot_azure_service_mgmt_apis.gif[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the Azure Service Management API permissions.]

. Click *Access Azure Service Management as organization users* and then click *Add permissions*.
+
image:screenshot_azure_service_mgmt_apis_add.gif[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows adding the Azure Service Management APIs.]

.Get the application ID and directory ID for the application

. In the *Azure Active Directory* service, click *App registrations* and select the application.

. Copy the *Application (client) ID* and the *Directory (tenant) ID*.
+
image:screenshot_azure_app_ids.gif[A screenshot that shows the application (client) ID and directory (tenant) ID for an application in Azure Active Directory.]
+
When you add the Azure account to BlueXP, you need to provide the application (client) ID and the directory (tenant) ID for the application. BlueXP uses the IDs to programmatically sign in.

.Create a client secret

. Open the *Azure Active Directory* service.

. Click *App registrations* and select your application.

. Click *Certificates & secrets > New client secret*.

. Provide a description of the secret and a duration.

. Click *Add*.

. Copy the value of the client secret.
+
image:screenshot_azure_client_secret.gif[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows a client secret for the Azure AD service principal.]
+
You now have a client secret that BlueXP can use it to authenticate with Azure AD.

.Result

Your service principal is now setup and you should have copied the application (client) ID, the directory (tenant) ID, and the value of the client secret. You need to enter this information in BlueXP when you add an Azure account.
--

====
// end tabbed area

Commit message:

Even more edits to standard mode content

task-set-up-permissions-on-prem.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-set-up-permissions-on-prem.html
keywords: aws networking, networking, connector networking, ports, proxy server, outbound internet, endpoints, urls, permissions, cloud permission, aws permissions, iam role, keys, aws keys, aws marketplace, marketplace install, manuall install, connector installer
summary: Deploy a Connector in AWS so that BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment.
---

= Set up cloud permissions
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
If you want to use BlueXP services in AWS or Azure, then you need to set up permissions in your cloud provider so that you can add the credentials to the Connector after you install it.

TIP: Why not Google Cloud? When the Connector is installed on your premises, it can't manage your storage data in Google Cloud. The Connector must be installed in Google Cloud to manage any storage or data that resides there.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS
--
When the Connector is installed on premises, you need to provide BlueXP with AWS permissions by adding access keys for an IAM user who has the required permissions. 

You must use this authentication method if the Connector is installed on premises. You can't use an IAM role.

.Steps

. From the IAM console, create a policy:

.. Click *Policies > Create policy*.

.. Select *JSON* and copy and paste the contents of the link:reference-permissions-aws.html[IAM policy for the Connector].

.. Finish the remaining steps to create the policy.
+
Depending on the BlueXP services that you're planning to use, you might need to create a second policy.
+
For standard regions, the permissions are spread across two policies. Two policies are required due to a maximum character size limit for managed policies in AWS. link:reference-permissions-aws.html[Learn more about IAM policies for the Connector].

. Attach the policies to an IAM user.
+
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create.html[AWS Documentation: Creating IAM Roles^]
* https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_manage-attach-detach.html[AWS Documentation: Adding and Removing IAM Policies^]

. Ensure that the user has access keys that you can add to BlueXP after you install the Connector.

.Result

You should now have access keys for an IAM user who has the required permissions. After you install the Connector, you'll need to associate these credentials with the Connector from BlueXP.

link:task-install-connector-on-prem.html[Learn how to install the Connector and associate the credentials].
--

.Azure
--
When the Connector is installed on premises, you need to provide BlueXP with Azure permissions by setting up a service principal in Azure Active Directory and obtaining the Azure credentials that BlueXP needs.

.Create an Azure Active Directory application for role-based access control

. Ensure that you have permissions in Azure to create an Active Directory application and to assign the application to a role. 
+
For details, refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#required-permissions/[Microsoft Azure Documentation: Required permissions^].

. From the Azure portal, open the *Azure Active Directory* service.
+
image:screenshot_azure_ad.gif[Shows the Active Directory service in Microsoft Azure.]

. In the menu, click *App registrations*.

. Click *New registration*.

. Specify details about the application:

* *Name*: Enter a name for the application.
* *Account type*: Select an account type (any will work with BlueXP).
* *Redirect URI*: You can leave this field blank.

. Click *Register*.
+
You've created the AD application and service principal.

.Assign the application to a role

. Create a custom role:

.. Copy the contents of the link:reference-permissions-azure.html[custom role permissions for the Connector] and save them in a JSON file.

.. Modify the JSON file by adding Azure subscription IDs to the assignable scope.
+
You should add the ID for each Azure subscription from which users will create Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems.
+
*Example*
+
[source,json]
"AssignableScopes": [
"/subscriptions/d333af45-0d07-4154-943d-c25fbzzzzzzz",
"/subscriptions/54b91999-b3e6-4599-908e-416e0zzzzzzz",
"/subscriptions/398e471c-3b42-4ae7-9b59-ce5bbzzzzzzz"

.. Use the JSON file to create a custom role in Azure.
+
The following steps describe how to create the role by using Bash in Azure Cloud Shell.
+
* Start https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cloud-shell/overview[Azure Cloud Shell^] and choose the Bash environment.

* Upload the JSON file.
+
image:screenshot_azure_shell_upload.png[A screenshot of the Azure Cloud Shell where you can choose the option to upload a file.]

* Use the Azure CLI to create the custom role:
+
[source,azurecli]
az role definition create --role-definition Connector_Policy.json
+
You should now have a custom role called BlueXP Operator that you can assign to the Connector virtual machine.

. Assign the application to the role:

.. From the Azure portal, open the *Subscriptions* service.

.. Select the subscription.

.. Click *Access control (IAM) > Add > Add role assignment*.

.. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.

.. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

* Keep *User, group, or service principal* selected.
* Click *Select members*.
+
image:screenshot-azure-service-principal-role.png[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the Members tab when adding a role to an application.]
* Search for the name of the application.
+
Here's an example:
+
image:screenshot_azure_service_principal_role.png[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the Add role assignment form in the Azure portal.]

* Select the application and click *Select*.
* Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.
+
The service principal now has the required Azure permissions to deploy the Connector.
+
If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from multiple Azure subscriptions, then you must bind the service principal to each of those subscriptions. BlueXP enables you to select the subscription that you want to use when deploying Cloud Volumes ONTAP.

.Add Windows Azure Service Management API permissions

. In the *Azure Active Directory* service, click *App registrations* and select the application.

. Click *API permissions > Add a permission*.

. Under *Microsoft APIs*, select *Azure Service Management*.
+
image:screenshot_azure_service_mgmt_apis.gif[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows the Azure Service Management API permissions.]

. Click *Access Azure Service Management as organization users* and then click *Add permissions*.
+
image:screenshot_azure_service_mgmt_apis_add.gif[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows adding the Azure Service Management APIs.]

.Get the application ID and directory ID for the application

. In the *Azure Active Directory* service, click *App registrations* and select the application.

. Copy the *Application (client) ID* and the *Directory (tenant) ID*.
+
image:screenshot_azure_app_ids.gif[A screenshot that shows the application (client) ID and directory (tenant) ID for an application in Azure Active Directory.]
+
When you add the Azure account to BlueXP, you need to provide the application (client) ID and the directory (tenant) ID for the application. BlueXP uses the IDs to programmatically sign in.

.Create a client secret

. Open the *Azure Active Directory* service.

. Click *App registrations* and select your application.

. Click *Certificates & secrets > New client secret*.

. Provide a description of the secret and a duration.

. Click *Add*.

. Copy the value of the client secret.
+
image:screenshot_azure_client_secret.gif[A screenshot of the Azure portal that shows a client secret for the Azure AD service principal.]
+
You now have a client secret that BlueXP can use it to authenticate with Azure AD.

.Result

Your service principal is now setup and you should have copied the application (client) ID, the directory (tenant) ID, and the value of the client secret. After you install the Connector, you'll need to associate these credentials with the Connector from BlueXP.

link:task-install-connector-on-prem.html[Learn how to install the Connector and associate the credentials].
--

====
// end tabbed area
