task-quick-start-connector-on-prem.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-quick-start-connector-on-prem.html
keywords: quick start, bluexp quick start, get started, get started with bluexp, standard mode, saas mode
summary: Creating a Connector on your premises includes a few steps.
---

= Quick start to create a Connector on premises
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Creating a Connector on your premises includes a few steps.

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-1.png[One] Set up networking

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Prepare the following for the Connector:

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* A network location where you plan to install the Connector
* A network connection to the networks where you're planning to create and manage working environments
* Outbound internet access to specific endpoints for day-to-day operations
* The IP address, credentials, and HTTPS certificate of a proxy server, if a proxy server is required for outbound internet

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-set-up-networking-on-prem.html[Learn more about networking requirements].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-2.png[Two] Review host requirements

[role="quick-margin-para"]
The Connector software must run on a host that meets specific requirements. The key requirements are as follows:

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* A dedicated host running CentOS or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
* 4 CPUs
* 14 GB of RAM
* Docker Engine

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:reference-host-requirements-on-prem.html[Learn more about these host requirements].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-3.png[Three] Set up cloud permissions

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Set up permissions for your cloud provider so that you can use BlueXP to manage storage in the cloud:

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* *AWS*: Create an IAM policy and attach the policy to an IAM user. After installation, you need to provide BlueXP with access keys for that IAM user. 

* *Azure*: Set up a service principal in Azure Active Directory that includes the required permissions. After installation, you need to provide BlueXP with the credentials for the service principal.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
When the Connector is installed on your premises, it can't manage storage or data in Google Cloud. The Connector must be installed in Google Cloud to manage any storage or data that resides there.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-set-up-permissions-on-prem.html[Follow step-by-step instructions for each of these options].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-4.png[Four] Install the Connector software

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site] and run the installation script.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-install-connector-on-prem.html[Follow step-by-step instructions].

Commit message:

Added quick start step for providing permissions

task-quick-start-connector-on-prem.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-quick-start-connector-on-prem.html
keywords: quick start, bluexp quick start, get started, get started with bluexp, standard mode, saas mode
summary: Creating a Connector on your premises includes a few steps.
---

= Quick start to create a Connector on premises
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
Create a Connector on your premises by setting up networking, preparing a host, preparing cloud permissions, and more.

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-1.png[One] Set up networking

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Prepare the following for the Connector:

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* A network location where you plan to install the Connector
* A network connection to the networks where you're planning to create and manage working environments
* Outbound internet access to specific endpoints for day-to-day operations
* The IP address, credentials, and HTTPS certificate of a proxy server, if a proxy server is required for outbound internet

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-set-up-networking-on-prem.html[Learn more about networking requirements].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-2.png[Two] Review host requirements

[role="quick-margin-para"]
The Connector software must run on a host that meets specific requirements. The key requirements are as follows:

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* A dedicated host running CentOS or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
* 4 CPUs
* 14 GB of RAM
* Docker Engine

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:reference-host-requirements-on-prem.html[Learn more about these host requirements].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-3.png[Three] Set up cloud permissions

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Set up permissions for your cloud provider so that you can use BlueXP to manage storage in the cloud:

[role="quick-margin-list"]
* *AWS*: Create an IAM policy and attach the policy to an IAM user. After installation, you need to provide BlueXP with access keys for that IAM user. 

* *Azure*: Set up a service principal in Azure Active Directory that includes the required permissions. After installation, you need to provide BlueXP with the credentials for the service principal.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
When the Connector is installed on your premises, it can't manage storage or data in Google Cloud. The Connector must be installed in Google Cloud to manage any storage or data that resides there.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-set-up-permissions-on-prem.html[Follow step-by-step instructions for each of these options].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-4.png[Four] Install the Connector software

[role="quick-margin-para"]
Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site] and run the installation script.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-install-connector-on-prem.html[Follow step-by-step instructions].

.image:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NetAppDocs/common/main/media/number-5.png[Five] Provide BlueXP with permissions

[role="quick-margin-para"]
After you install and set up the Connector, you need to add your cloud credentials so that BlueXP has the required permissions to perform actions in AWS or Azure.

[role="quick-margin-para"]
link:task-provide-permissions-on-prem.html[Follow step-by-step instructions].
