task-managing-connectors.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-managing-connectors.html
keywords: managing connectors, uninstall connector, switch connectors, switch between connectors, go to local UI, local interface, local connector, local cloud manager
summary: After you create one or more Connectors, you can manage them by switching between Connectors, connecting to the local user interface running on a Connector, and more.
---

= Managing existing Connectors
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
After you create one or more Connectors, you can manage them by switching between Connectors, connecting to the local user interface running on a Connector, and more.

== Switch between Connectors

If you have multiple Connectors, you can switch between them to see the Working Environments that are associated with a specific Connector.

For example, let's say that you're working in a multi-cloud environment. You might have one Connector in AWS and another in Google Cloud. You'd need to switch between those Connectors to manage the Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems running in those clouds.

.Step

. Click the *Connector* drop-down, select another Connector, and then click *Switch*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_switch.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Switch action.]
+
Cloud Manager refreshes and shows the Working Environments associated with the selected Connector.

== Access the local UI

While you should perform almost all tasks from the SaaS user interface, a local user interface is still available on the Connector. This interface is needed for a few tasks that need to be performed from the Connector itself:

* link:task-configuring-proxy.html[Setting a proxy server]
* Installing a patch (you'll typically work with NetApp personnel to install a patch)
* Downloading AutoSupport messages (usually directed by NetApp personnel when you have issues)

.Steps

. link:task-logging-in.html[Log in to the Cloud Manager SaaS interface^] from a machine that has a network connection to the Connector instance.
+
If the Connector doesn't have a public IP address, you'll need a VPN connection or you'll need to connect from a jump host that's in the same network as the Connector.

. Click the *Connector* drop-down and then click *Go to Local UI*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_local_ui.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Go to local UI action.]
+
The Cloud Manager interface running on the Connector loads in a new browser tab.

== Download or send an AutoSupport message

If you're having problems, NetApp personnel might ask you to send an AutoSupport message to NetApp support for troubleshooting purposes.

.Steps

. Connect to the Connector local UI, as described in the section above.

. In the upper right of the Cloud Manager console, click the Help icon, and select *Support*.
+
image:screenshot-help-support.png[A screenshot of the Help menu where Support is the first option listed]

. Click *Connector*.

. Depending on how you need to send the information to NetApp support, choose one of the following options:

.. Select the option to download the AutoSupport message to your local machine. You can then send it to NetApp Support using a preferred method.
.. Click *Send AutoSupport* to directly send the message to NetApp Support.

+
image:screenshot-connector-autosupport.png[]

== Connect to the Linux VM

If you need to connect to the Linux VM that the Connector runs on, you can do so by using the connectivity options available from your cloud provider.

=== AWS

When you created the Connector instance in AWS, you provided an AWS access key and secret key. You can use this key pair to SSH to the instance.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstances.html[AWS Docs: Connect to your Linux instance^]

=== Azure

When you created the Connector VM in Azure, you chose to authenticate with a password or SSH public key. Use the authentication method that you chose to connect to the VM.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/mac-create-ssh-keys#ssh-into-your-vm[Azure Docs: SSH into your VM^]

=== Google Cloud

You can't specify an authentication method when you create a Connector in Google Cloud. However, you can connect to the Linux VM instance using the Google Cloud Console or Google Cloud CLI (gcloud).

https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/connecting-to-instance[Google Cloud Docs: Connect to Linux VMs^]

== Apply security updates

Update the operating system on the Connector to ensure that it's patched with the latest security updates.

.Steps

. Access the CLI shell on the Connector host.

. Run the following commands with elevated privileges:
+
[source,cli]
sudo -s
service service-manager stop
yum -y update –-security
service service-manager start

== Change the IP address for a Connector

If it's required for your business, you can change the internal IP address and public IP address of the Connector instance that is automatically assigned by your cloud provider.

.Steps

. Follow the instructions from your cloud provider to change the local IP address or public IP address (or both) for the Connector instance.

. If you changed the public IP address and you need to connect to the local user interface running on the Connector, restart the Connector instance to register the new IP address with Cloud Manager.

. If you changed the private IP address, update the backup location for Cloud Volumes ONTAP configuration files so that the backups are being sent to the new private IP address on the Connector.

.. Run the following command from the Cloud Volumes ONTAP CLI to remove the current backup target:
[source,cli]
system configuration backup settings modify -destination ""

.. Go to Cloud Manager and open the working environment.

.. Click the menu and select *Advanced > Configuration Backups*.

.. Click *Set Backup Target*.

== Edit a Connector's URIs

Add and remove the URIs for a Connector.

.Steps

. Click the *Connector* drop-down from the Cloud Manager header.

. Click *Manage Connectors*.

. Click the action menu for a Connector and click *Edit URIs*.

. Add and remove URIs and then click *Apply*.

== Fix download failures when using a Google Cloud NAT gateway

The Connector automatically downloads software updates for Cloud Volumes ONTAP. The download can fail if your configuration uses a Google Cloud NAT gateway. You can correct this issue by limiting the number of parts that the software image is divided into. This step must be completed by using the Cloud Manager API.

.Step

.	Submit a PUT request to /occm/config with the following JSON as body:

[source.json]
{
  "maxDownloadSessions": 32
}

The value for _maxDownloadSessions_ can be 1 or any integer greater than 1. If the value is 1, then the downloaded image will not be divided.

Note that 32 is an example value. The value that you should use depends on your NAT configuration and the number of sessions that you can have simultaneously.

https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-automation/cm/api_ref_resources.html#occmconfig[Learn more about the /occm/config API call^].

== Upgrade the Connector on-prem without internet access

If you link:task-install-connector-onprem-no-internet.html[installed the Connector on an on-premises host that doesn't have internet access], you can upgrade the Connector when a newer version is available from the NetApp Support Site.

The Connector needs to restart during the upgrade process so the user interface will be unavailable during the upgrade.

.Steps

. Download the Cloud Manager software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^].

. Copy the installer to the Linux host.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x /path/cloud-manager-connector-offline-v3.9.14

. Run the installation script:
+
[source,cli]
sudo /path/cloud-manager-connector-offline-v3.9.14

. After the upgrade is complete, you can verify the Connector's version by going to *Help > Support > Connector*.

.What about software upgrades on hosts that have internet access?
****
The Connector automatically updates its software to the latest version, as long as it has link:reference-networking-cloud-manager.html[outbound internet access] to obtain the software update.
****

== Remove Connectors from Cloud Manager

If a Connector is inactive, you can remove it from the list of Connectors in Cloud Manager. You might do this if you deleted the Connector virtual machine or if you uninstalled the Connector software.

Note the following about removing a Connector:

* This action doesn't delete the virtual machine.
* This action can't be reverted--once you remove a Connector from Cloud Manager, you can't add it back to Cloud Manager.

.Steps

. Click the *Connector* drop-down from the Cloud Manager header.

. Click *Manage Connectors*.

. Click the action menu for an inactive Connector and click *Remove Connector*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_remove.gif[A screenshot of the Connector widget where you can remove an inactive Connector.]

. Enter the name of the Connector to confirm and then click Remove.

.Result

Cloud Manager removes the Connector from its records.

== Uninstall the Connector software

Uninstall the Connector software to troubleshoot issues or to permanently remove the software from the host. The steps that you need to use depends on whether you installed the Connector on a host that has internet access or a host in a restricted network that doesn't have internet access.

=== Uninstall from a host with internet access

The online Connector includes an uninstallation script that you can use to uninstall the software.

.Step

. From the Linux host, run the uninstallation script:
+
*/opt/application/netapp/cloudmanager/bin/uninstall.sh [silent]*
+
_silent_ runs the script without prompting you for confirmation.

=== Uninstall from a host without internet access

Use these commands if you downloaded the Connector software from the NetApp Support Site and installed it in a restricted network that doesn't have internet access.

.Step

. From the Linux host, run the following commands:
+
[source,cli]
docker-compose -f /opt/application/netapp/ds/docker-compose.yml down -v
rm -rf /opt/application/netapp/ds

Commit message:

Added details about accessing the local UI running on the Connector

task-managing-connectors.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-managing-connectors.html
keywords: managing connectors, uninstall connector, switch connectors, switch between connectors, go to local UI, local interface, local connector, local cloud manager
summary: After you create one or more Connectors, you can manage them by switching between Connectors, connecting to the local user interface running on a Connector, and more.
---

= Managing existing Connectors
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
After you create one or more Connectors, you can manage them by switching between Connectors, connecting to the local user interface running on a Connector, and more.

== Switch between Connectors

If you have multiple Connectors, you can switch between them to see the Working Environments that are associated with a specific Connector.

For example, let's say that you're working in a multi-cloud environment. You might have one Connector in AWS and another in Google Cloud. You'd need to switch between those Connectors to manage the Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems running in those clouds.

.Step

. Click the *Connector* drop-down, select another Connector, and then click *Switch*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_switch.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Switch action.]
+
Cloud Manager refreshes and shows the Working Environments associated with the selected Connector.

== Access the local UI

While you should perform almost all tasks from the SaaS user interface, a local user interface is still available on the Connector. If you're accessing Cloud Manager from a Government region or a site that doesn't have outbound internet access, then you need to use the local user interface running on the Connector.

.Steps

. Open a web browser and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_
+
_ipaddress_ can be localhost, a private IP address, or a public IP address, depending on the configuration of the host. For example, if the Connector is in the public cloud without a public IP address, you must enter a private IP address from a host that has a connection to the Connector host.

. Enter your user name and password to log in.

== Download or send an AutoSupport message

If you're having problems, NetApp personnel might ask you to send an AutoSupport message to NetApp support for troubleshooting purposes.

.Steps

. Connect to the Connector local UI, as described in the section above.

. In the upper right of the Cloud Manager console, click the Help icon, and select *Support*.
+
image:screenshot-help-support.png[A screenshot of the Help menu where Support is the first option listed]

. Click *Connector*.

. Depending on how you need to send the information to NetApp support, choose one of the following options:

.. Select the option to download the AutoSupport message to your local machine. You can then send it to NetApp Support using a preferred method.
.. Click *Send AutoSupport* to directly send the message to NetApp Support.

+
image:screenshot-connector-autosupport.png[]

== Connect to the Linux VM

If you need to connect to the Linux VM that the Connector runs on, you can do so by using the connectivity options available from your cloud provider.

=== AWS

When you created the Connector instance in AWS, you provided an AWS access key and secret key. You can use this key pair to SSH to the instance.

https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstances.html[AWS Docs: Connect to your Linux instance^]

=== Azure

When you created the Connector VM in Azure, you chose to authenticate with a password or SSH public key. Use the authentication method that you chose to connect to the VM.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/mac-create-ssh-keys#ssh-into-your-vm[Azure Docs: SSH into your VM^]

=== Google Cloud

You can't specify an authentication method when you create a Connector in Google Cloud. However, you can connect to the Linux VM instance using the Google Cloud Console or Google Cloud CLI (gcloud).

https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/connecting-to-instance[Google Cloud Docs: Connect to Linux VMs^]

== Apply security updates

Update the operating system on the Connector to ensure that it's patched with the latest security updates.

.Steps

. Access the CLI shell on the Connector host.

. Run the following commands with elevated privileges:
+
[source,cli]
sudo -s
service service-manager stop
yum -y update –-security
service service-manager start

== Change the IP address for a Connector

If it's required for your business, you can change the internal IP address and public IP address of the Connector instance that is automatically assigned by your cloud provider.

.Steps

. Follow the instructions from your cloud provider to change the local IP address or public IP address (or both) for the Connector instance.

. If you changed the public IP address and you need to connect to the local user interface running on the Connector, restart the Connector instance to register the new IP address with Cloud Manager.

. If you changed the private IP address, update the backup location for Cloud Volumes ONTAP configuration files so that the backups are being sent to the new private IP address on the Connector.

.. Run the following command from the Cloud Volumes ONTAP CLI to remove the current backup target:
[source,cli]
system configuration backup settings modify -destination ""

.. Go to Cloud Manager and open the working environment.

.. Click the menu and select *Advanced > Configuration Backups*.

.. Click *Set Backup Target*.

== Edit a Connector's URIs

Add and remove the URIs for a Connector.

.Steps

. Click the *Connector* drop-down from the Cloud Manager header.

. Click *Manage Connectors*.

. Click the action menu for a Connector and click *Edit URIs*.

. Add and remove URIs and then click *Apply*.

== Fix download failures when using a Google Cloud NAT gateway

The Connector automatically downloads software updates for Cloud Volumes ONTAP. The download can fail if your configuration uses a Google Cloud NAT gateway. You can correct this issue by limiting the number of parts that the software image is divided into. This step must be completed by using the Cloud Manager API.

.Step

.	Submit a PUT request to /occm/config with the following JSON as body:

[source.json]
{
  "maxDownloadSessions": 32
}

The value for _maxDownloadSessions_ can be 1 or any integer greater than 1. If the value is 1, then the downloaded image will not be divided.

Note that 32 is an example value. The value that you should use depends on your NAT configuration and the number of sessions that you can have simultaneously.

https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-automation/cm/api_ref_resources.html#occmconfig[Learn more about the /occm/config API call^].

== Upgrade the Connector on-prem without internet access

If you link:task-install-connector-onprem-no-internet.html[installed the Connector on an on-premises host that doesn't have internet access], you can upgrade the Connector when a newer version is available from the NetApp Support Site.

The Connector needs to restart during the upgrade process so the user interface will be unavailable during the upgrade.

.Steps

. Download the Cloud Manager software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^].

. Copy the installer to the Linux host.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x /path/cloud-manager-connector-offline-v3.9.14

. Run the installation script:
+
[source,cli]
sudo /path/cloud-manager-connector-offline-v3.9.14

. After the upgrade is complete, you can verify the Connector's version by going to *Help > Support > Connector*.

.What about software upgrades on hosts that have internet access?
****
The Connector automatically updates its software to the latest version, as long as it has link:reference-networking-cloud-manager.html[outbound internet access] to obtain the software update.
****

== Remove Connectors from Cloud Manager

If a Connector is inactive, you can remove it from the list of Connectors in Cloud Manager. You might do this if you deleted the Connector virtual machine or if you uninstalled the Connector software.

Note the following about removing a Connector:

* This action doesn't delete the virtual machine.
* This action can't be reverted--once you remove a Connector from Cloud Manager, you can't add it back to Cloud Manager.

.Steps

. Click the *Connector* drop-down from the Cloud Manager header.

. Click *Manage Connectors*.

. Click the action menu for an inactive Connector and click *Remove Connector*.
+
image:screenshot_connector_remove.gif[A screenshot of the Connector widget where you can remove an inactive Connector.]

. Enter the name of the Connector to confirm and then click Remove.

.Result

Cloud Manager removes the Connector from its records.

== Uninstall the Connector software

Uninstall the Connector software to troubleshoot issues or to permanently remove the software from the host. The steps that you need to use depends on whether you installed the Connector on a host that has internet access or a host in a restricted network that doesn't have internet access.

=== Uninstall from a host with internet access

The online Connector includes an uninstallation script that you can use to uninstall the software.

.Step

. From the Linux host, run the uninstallation script:
+
*/opt/application/netapp/cloudmanager/bin/uninstall.sh [silent]*
+
_silent_ runs the script without prompting you for confirmation.

=== Uninstall from a host without internet access

Use these commands if you downloaded the Connector software from the NetApp Support Site and installed it in a restricted network that doesn't have internet access.

.Step

. From the Linux host, run the following commands:
+
[source,cli]
docker-compose -f /opt/application/netapp/ds/docker-compose.yml down -v
rm -rf /opt/application/netapp/ds
