task-installing-linux.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-installing-linux.html
keywords: install connector, manually install connector, install connector software, installation, installing, linux, installer, software, on prem, on-prem, silent, configurations, ec2, vm, ports, ram, operating system, os, host, requirement, requirements, hypervisor, disk, space, mysql, centos, rhel, red hat, cpu, disk space
summary: The most common way to create a Connector is directly from BlueXP or from a cloud provider's marketplace. But you have the option to download and install the Connector software on an existing Linux host in your network or in the cloud. These steps are specific to hosts that have internet access.
---

= Install the Connector on an existing Linux host that has internet access
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
The most common way to create a Connector is directly from BlueXP or from a cloud provider's marketplace. But you have the option to download and install the Connector software on an existing Linux host in your network or in the cloud. These steps are specific to hosts that have internet access.

link:concept-connectors.html[Learn about other ways to deploy a Connector].

NOTE: If you want to create a Cloud Volumes ONTAP system in Google Cloud, then you must have a Connector that's running in Google Cloud as well. You can't use a Connector that's running in AWS, Azure, or on-prem.

== Verify host requirements

The Connector software must run on a host that meets specific operating system requirements, RAM requirements, port requirements, and so on.

A dedicated host is required::
The Connector is not supported on a host that is shared with other applications. The host must be a dedicated host.

CPU:: 4 cores or 4 vCPUs

RAM:: 14 GB

AWS EC2 instance type::
An instance type that meets the CPU and RAM requirements above. We recommend t3.xlarge.

Azure VM size::
An instance type that meets the CPU and RAM requirements above. We recommend DS3 v2.

GCP machine type::
An instance type that meets the CPU and RAM requirements above. We recommend n2-standard-4.
+
The Connector is supported in Google Cloud on a VM instance with an OS that supports https://cloud.google.com/compute/shielded-vm/docs/shielded-vm[Shielded VM features^]

Supported operating systems::
* CentOS 7.6
* CentOS 7.7
* CentOS 7.8
* CentOS 7.9
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.6
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.7
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.8
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.9
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.6
+
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux system must be registered with Red Hat Subscription Management. If it is not registered, the system cannot access repositories to update required 3rd party software during Connector installation.
+
The Connector is supported on English-language versions of these operating systems.

Hypervisor::
A bare metal or hosted hypervisor that is certified to run CentOS or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
https://access.redhat.com/certified-hypervisors[Red Hat Solution: Which hypervisors are certified to run Red Hat Enterprise Linux?^]

Disk space in /opt:: 100 GiB of space must be available

Disk space in /var:: 20 GiB of space must be available

Docker Engine:: Docker Engine version 19.3.1 or later is required on the host before you install the Connector. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[View installation instructions^]

Outbound internet access::
The installer for the Connector must access the following URLs during the installation process:
+
* \https://support.netapp.com
* \https://mysupport.netapp.com
* \https://cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com/tenancy
* \https://stream.cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com
* \https://cloudmanagerinfraprod.azurecr.io
* \https://production-artifacts.cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com
* \https://*.blob.core.windows.net

+
The host might try to update operating system packages during installation. The host can contact different mirroring sites for these OS packages.

== Install the Connector

After you verify that you have a supported Linux host, you can obtain the Connector software and then install it.

.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS.

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. This parameter is required only if you specify an HTTPS proxy server.

.Result

The Connector is now installed. At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

== Set up the Connector

Sign up or log in and then set up the Connector to work with your account.

.Steps

. Open a web browser and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_
+
_ipaddress_ can be localhost, a private IP address, or a public IP address, depending on the configuration of the host. For example, if the Connector is in the public cloud without a public IP address, you must enter a private IP address from a host that has a connection to the Connector host.

. Sign up or log in.

. If you installed the Connector in Google Cloud, set up a service account that has the permissions that BlueXP needs to create and manage Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems in projects.

.. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles#iam-custom-roles-create-gcloud[Create a role in GCP^] that includes the permissions defined in the link:reference-permissions-gcp.html[Connector policy for GCP].

.. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts#creating_a_service_account[Create a GCP service account and apply the custom role that you just created^].

.. https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#changeserviceaccountandscopes[Associate this service account with the Connector VM^].

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in other projects, https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/granting-changing-revoking-access#granting-console[grant access by adding the service account with the BlueXP role to that project^]. You'll need to repeat this step for each project.

. After you log in, set up BlueXP:
.. Specify the NetApp account to associate with the Connector.
+
link:concept-netapp-accounts.html[Learn about NetApp accounts].
.. Enter a name for the system.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and set up with your NetApp account. BlueXP will automatically use this Connector when you create new working environments.

.After you finish

Set up permissions so BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment:

* AWS: link:task-adding-aws-accounts.html[Set up an AWS account and then add it to BlueXP]

* Azure: link:task-adding-azure-accounts.html[Set up an Azure account and then add it to BlueXP]

* Google Cloud: See step 3 above

Commit message:

Added a step to unset variables

task-installing-linux.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-installing-linux.html
keywords: install connector, manually install connector, install connector software, installation, installing, linux, installer, software, on prem, on-prem, silent, configurations, ec2, vm, ports, ram, operating system, os, host, requirement, requirements, hypervisor, disk, space, mysql, centos, rhel, red hat, cpu, disk space
summary: The most common way to create a Connector is directly from BlueXP or from a cloud provider's marketplace. But you have the option to download and install the Connector software on an existing Linux host in your network or in the cloud. These steps are specific to hosts that have internet access.
---

= Install the Connector on an existing Linux host that has internet access
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
The most common way to create a Connector is directly from BlueXP or from a cloud provider's marketplace. But you have the option to download and install the Connector software on an existing Linux host in your network or in the cloud. These steps are specific to hosts that have internet access.

link:concept-connectors.html[Learn about other ways to deploy a Connector].

NOTE: If you want to create a Cloud Volumes ONTAP system in Google Cloud, then you must have a Connector that's running in Google Cloud as well. You can't use a Connector that's running in AWS, Azure, or on-prem.

== Verify host requirements

The Connector software must run on a host that meets specific operating system requirements, RAM requirements, port requirements, and so on.

A dedicated host is required::
The Connector is not supported on a host that is shared with other applications. The host must be a dedicated host.

CPU:: 4 cores or 4 vCPUs

RAM:: 14 GB

AWS EC2 instance type::
An instance type that meets the CPU and RAM requirements above. We recommend t3.xlarge.

Azure VM size::
An instance type that meets the CPU and RAM requirements above. We recommend DS3 v2.

GCP machine type::
An instance type that meets the CPU and RAM requirements above. We recommend n2-standard-4.
+
The Connector is supported in Google Cloud on a VM instance with an OS that supports https://cloud.google.com/compute/shielded-vm/docs/shielded-vm[Shielded VM features^]

Supported operating systems::
* CentOS 7.6
* CentOS 7.7
* CentOS 7.8
* CentOS 7.9
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.6
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.7
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.8
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.9
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.6
+
The Red Hat Enterprise Linux system must be registered with Red Hat Subscription Management. If it is not registered, the system cannot access repositories to update required 3rd party software during Connector installation.
+
The Connector is supported on English-language versions of these operating systems.

Hypervisor::
A bare metal or hosted hypervisor that is certified to run CentOS or Red Hat Enterprise Linux
https://access.redhat.com/certified-hypervisors[Red Hat Solution: Which hypervisors are certified to run Red Hat Enterprise Linux?^]

Disk space in /opt:: 100 GiB of space must be available

Disk space in /var:: 20 GiB of space must be available

Docker Engine:: Docker Engine version 19.3.1 or later is required on the host before you install the Connector. https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[View installation instructions^]

Outbound internet access::
The installer for the Connector must access the following URLs during the installation process:
+
* \https://support.netapp.com
* \https://mysupport.netapp.com
* \https://cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com/tenancy
* \https://stream.cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com
* \https://cloudmanagerinfraprod.azurecr.io
* \https://production-artifacts.cloudmanager.cloud.netapp.com
* \https://*.blob.core.windows.net

+
The host might try to update operating system packages during installation. The host can contact different mirroring sites for these OS packages.

== Install the Connector

After you verify that you have a supported Linux host, you can obtain the Connector software and then install it.

.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector. HTTP and HTTPS are supported.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS.

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. If the _http_proxy_ or _https_proxy_ system variables are set on the host, remove them:
+
[source,cli]
unset http_proxy
unset https_proxy
+
If you don't remove these system variables, the installation will fail.

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. This parameter is required only if you specify an HTTPS proxy server.

.Result

The Connector is now installed. At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

== Set up the Connector

Sign up or log in and then set up the Connector to work with your account.

.Steps

. Open a web browser and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_
+
_ipaddress_ can be localhost, a private IP address, or a public IP address, depending on the configuration of the host. For example, if the Connector is in the public cloud without a public IP address, you must enter a private IP address from a host that has a connection to the Connector host.

. Sign up or log in.

. If you installed the Connector in Google Cloud, set up a service account that has the permissions that BlueXP needs to create and manage Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems in projects.

.. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-custom-roles#iam-custom-roles-create-gcloud[Create a role in GCP^] that includes the permissions defined in the link:reference-permissions-gcp.html[Connector policy for GCP].

.. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-accounts#creating_a_service_account[Create a GCP service account and apply the custom role that you just created^].

.. https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#changeserviceaccountandscopes[Associate this service account with the Connector VM^].

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in other projects, https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/granting-changing-revoking-access#granting-console[grant access by adding the service account with the BlueXP role to that project^]. You'll need to repeat this step for each project.

. After you log in, set up BlueXP:
.. Specify the NetApp account to associate with the Connector.
+
link:concept-netapp-accounts.html[Learn about NetApp accounts].
.. Enter a name for the system.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and set up with your NetApp account. BlueXP will automatically use this Connector when you create new working environments.

.After you finish

Set up permissions so BlueXP can manage resources and processes within your public cloud environment:

* AWS: link:task-adding-aws-accounts.html[Set up an AWS account and then add it to BlueXP]

* Azure: link:task-adding-azure-accounts.html[Set up an Azure account and then add it to BlueXP]

* Google Cloud: See step 3 above
