task-viewing-amazon-s3.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-viewing-amazon-s3.html
keywords: s3 buckets, s3 storage, s3 working environment, amazon s3 buckets, amazon s3 working environment
summary: After you install a Connector in AWS, BlueXP can automatically discover information about the Amazon S3 buckets that reside in the AWS account where the Connector is installed. An Amazon S3 working environment is added to the Canvas so you can view this information.
---

= Viewing your Amazon S3 buckets
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
After you install a Connector in AWS, BlueXP can automatically discover information about the Amazon S3 buckets that reside in the AWS account where the Connector is installed. An Amazon S3 working environment is added to the Canvas so you can view this information.

You can see details about your S3 buckets, including the region, access policy, account, total and used capacity, and more. These buckets can be used as destinations for Cloud Backup, Cloud Tiering, or Cloud Sync operations. Additionally, you can use Cloud Data Sense to scan these buckets.

.Steps

. link:task-creating-connectors-aws.html[Install a Connector] in the AWS account where you want to view your Amazon S3 buckets.

. From the navigation menu, select *Storage > Canvas*.
+
You should automatically see an Amazon S3 working environment shortly after.
+
image:screenshot_s3_we.gif[A screenshot of an Amazon S3 working environment.]

. Click the working environment and select an action from the right pane.
+
image:screenshot_s3_actions.gif["A screenshot that shows the actions pane after you select an Amazon S3 working environment. The pane shows information about S3: the number of buckets and the available services."]

. Click *Sync data* to synchronize data to or from S3 buckets.
+
For more details, see https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-sync/concept-cloud-sync.html[the overview for the Cloud Sync service^].

. Click *Enable* if you want Cloud Data Sense to scan the S3 buckets for personal and sensitive data.
+
For more details, see https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-data-sense/task-scanning-s3.html[Getting started with Cloud Data Sense for Amazon S3^].
+
. Click *Enter Working Environment* to view details about the S3 buckets in your AWS account.
+
image:screenshot_amazon_s3.gif["A screenshot that shows the details of an Amazon S3 working environment: the total number of buckets and total number of regions, and then a table that shows details about each S3 bucket."]

Commit message:

Add links to new Amazon S3 storage repo from a couple topics

task-viewing-amazon-s3.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-viewing-amazon-s3.html
keywords: s3 buckets, s3 storage, s3 working environment, amazon s3 buckets, amazon s3 working environment
summary: After you install a Connector in AWS, BlueXP can automatically discover information about the Amazon S3 buckets that reside in the AWS account where the Connector is installed. An Amazon S3 working environment is added to the Canvas so you can view this information.
---

= Managing your Amazon S3 buckets
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
After you install a Connector in AWS, BlueXP can automatically discover information about the Amazon S3 buckets that reside in the AWS account where the Connector is installed. An Amazon S3 working environment is added to the Canvas so you can view this information.

image:screenshot-amazon-s3-we.png[A screenshot of an Amazon S3 working environment.]

You can view details about your S3 buckets, including the region, access policy, account, total and used capacity, and more. These buckets can be used as destinations for Cloud Backup, Cloud Tiering, or Cloud Sync operations. Additionally, you can use Cloud Data Sense to scan these buckets.

A newly added feature now enables you to create and edit S3 buckets. https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/bluexp-s3-storage/index.html[Go here to see how you can view, create, and manage your S3 buckets using BlueXP.]
