task-create-connectors-gov.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-create-connectors-gov.html
keywords: government region, gov, govcloud, connector
summary: If you are operating in a Government region, you need to deploy a Connector from your cloud provider's marketplace or by using the manual installation method. You can't deploy the Connector in a Government region from BlueXP's SaaS website.
---

= Deploy the Connector
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to deploy a Connector and then set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector.

== Install the Connector

Install the Connector from your cloud provider's marketplace or by manually installing the software on your own Linux host.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B018REK8QG[BlueXP page on the AWS Marketplace^]

. On the Marketplace page, click *Continue to Subscribe* and then click *Continue to Configuration*.
+
image:screenshot-subscribe-aws.png[A screenshot that shows the Continue to Subscribe and Continue to Configuration buttons on the AWS Marketplace.]

. Change any of the default options and click *Continue to Launch*.

. Under *Choose Action*, select *Launch through EC2* and then click *Launch*.
+
These steps describe how to launch the instance from the EC2 Console because the console enables you to attach an IAM role to the Connector instance. This isn't possible using the *Launch from Website* action.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Name and tags*: Enter a name and tags for the instance.

* *Application and OS Image*: Skip this section. The Connector AMI is already selected.

* *Instance type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Key pair (login)*: Select the key pair that you want to use to securely connect to the instance.

* *Network settings*: Edit the network settings as needed:
+
** Choose the desired VPC and subnet.
** Specify whether the instance should have a public IP address.
** Specify firewall settings that enable the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Configure storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Advanced details*: Under *IAM instance profile*, choose the IAM role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions].

* *Summary*: Review the summary and click *Launch instance*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.AWS Gov Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the BlueXP offering in the AWS Marketplace.
+
The IAM user must have AWS Marketplace permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe.

.. Open the EC2 service and select *Launch instance*.
.. Select *AWS Marketplace*.
.. Search for BlueXP and select the offering.
+
image:screenshot-gov-cloud-mktp.png[A screenshot that shows the BlueXP offering after searching for it in the AWS Marketplace]

.. Click *Continue*.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Choose an Instance Type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Configure Instance Details*: Select a VPC and subnet, choose the IAM role that you created in step 1, enable termination protection (recommended), and choose any other configuration options that meet your requirements.
+
image:screenshot_aws_iam_role.gif[A screenshot that shows fields on the Configure Instance page in AWS. The IAM role that you should have created in step 1 is selected.]

* *Add Storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Add Tags*: Enter tags for the instance, if desired.

* *Configure Security Group*: Specify the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Review*: Review your selections and click *Launch*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.Azure Marketplace
--
.What you'll need

* A VNet and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]

* An Azure custom role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]

.Steps

. Go to the NetApp Connector VM page in the Azure Marketplace.
+
* https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manager[Azure Marketplace page for commercial regions^]
* https://portal.azure.us/#create/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manageroccm-byol[Azure Marketplace page for Azure Government regions^]

. Click *Get it now* and then click *Continue*.

. From the Azure portal, click *Create* and follow the steps to configure the virtual machine.
+
Note the following as you configure the VM:

* The Connector can perform optimally with either HDD or SSD disks.

* Choose a VM size that meets CPU and RAM requirements. We recommend DS3 v2.

* For the network security group, the Connector requires inbound connections using SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements].

* Under *Management*, enable *System assigned managed identity* for the Connector by selecting *On*.
+
This setting is important because a managed identity allows the Connector virtual machine to identify itself to Azure Active Directory without providing any credentials. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[Learn more about managed identities for Azure resources^].

. On the *Review + create* page, review your selections and click *Create* to start the deployment.

.Result

Azure deploys the virtual machine with the specified settings. The virtual machine and Connector software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.
--

.Manual install
--
.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS.

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the "online" Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud. A separate "offline" installer is available for the Connector, but it's only supported with private mode deployments.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. This parameter is required only if you specify an HTTPS proxy server.

.Result

The Connector is now installed. At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.
--

====
// end tabbed area

== Provide permissions

Now that you've deployed the Connector, you need to provide the permissions that you previously set up so that you can use Cloud Volumes ONTAP, Cloud Backup, and Cloud Data Sense from BlueXP.

link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to prepare cloud permissions].

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS
--
Attach an IAM role that you previously created to the Connector EC2 instance.

These steps apply only if you manually installed the Connector in AWS. For AWS Marketplace deployments, you already associated the Connector instance with an IAM role that includes the required permissions.

.Step

. https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html#attach-iam-role[Attach the IAM role that you previously created to the Connector EC2 instance].
--

.Azure
--
Go to the Azure portal and assign the Azure custom role to the Connector virtual machine for one or more subscriptions.

.Steps

. From the Azure Portal, open the *Subscriptions* service and select your subscription.

. Click *Access control (IAM)* > *Add* > *Add role assignment*.

. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP Operator is the default name provided in the BlueXP policy. If you chose a different name for the role, then select that name instead.

. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

.. Assign access to a *Managed identity*.

.. Click *Select members*, select the subscription in which the Connector virtual machine was created, choose *Virtual machine*, and then select the Connector virtual machine.

.. Click *Select*.

.. Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from additional subscriptions, switch to that subscription and then repeat these steps.
--

.Google Cloud
--
Associate the service account with the Connector VM.

.Steps

. https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#changeserviceaccountandscopes[Associate the service account that you created with the Connector VM]

. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in other projects, grant access by adding the service account with the BlueXP role to that project. You'll need to repeat this step for each project.
--

====
// end tabbed area

== Set up BlueXP

When you access the BlueXP console for the first time, you'll be prompted to set up BlueXP.

.Steps

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector instance and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. Sign up or log in to BlueXP.

. After you log in, set up BlueXP:

.. Specify the NetApp account to associate with the Connector.
+
link:concept-netapp-accounts.html[Learn about NetApp accounts].
.. Enter a name for the system.

. If you deployed the Connector from the AWS Commercial Marketplace, from the Azure Commercial Marketplace, or by manually installing the software, then you need to disable the SaaS platform for your account:

.. From the top of BlueXP, click the *Account* drop-down and click *Manage Account*.

.. In the Overview tab, toggle the option to disable use of the SaaS platform.

+
Disabling the SaaS platform is required to enable restricted mode. If you deployed the Connector from the AWS Government Marketplace or the Azure Government Marketplace, then SaaS mode is already disabled.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and set up with your NetApp account. All users need to access BlueXP using the IP address of the Connector instance.

Commit message:

Edits for the new deployment modes

task-create-connectors-gov.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-create-connectors-gov.html
keywords: government region, gov, govcloud, connector
summary: To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to deploy a Connector and then set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector.
---

= Deploy the Connector in restricted mode
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
To use BlueXP in restricted mode, you need to deploy a Connector and then set up BlueXP by accessing the user interface that's running on the Connector.

== Install the Connector

Install the Connector from your cloud provider's marketplace or by manually installing the software on your own Linux host.

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B018REK8QG[BlueXP page on the AWS Marketplace^]

. On the Marketplace page, click *Continue to Subscribe* and then click *Continue to Configuration*.
+
image:screenshot-subscribe-aws.png[A screenshot that shows the Continue to Subscribe and Continue to Configuration buttons on the AWS Marketplace.]

. Change any of the default options and click *Continue to Launch*.

. Under *Choose Action*, select *Launch through EC2* and then click *Launch*.
+
These steps describe how to launch the instance from the EC2 Console because the console enables you to attach an IAM role to the Connector instance. This isn't possible using the *Launch from Website* action.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Name and tags*: Enter a name and tags for the instance.

* *Application and OS Image*: Skip this section. The Connector AMI is already selected.

* *Instance type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Key pair (login)*: Select the key pair that you want to use to securely connect to the instance.

* *Network settings*: Edit the network settings as needed:
+
** Choose the desired VPC and subnet.
** Specify whether the instance should have a public IP address.
** Specify firewall settings that enable the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Configure storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Advanced details*: Under *IAM instance profile*, choose the IAM role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn how to set up AWS permissions].

* *Summary*: Review the summary and click *Launch instance*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.AWS Gov Marketplace
--

.What you'll need

* A VPC and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]
* An IAM role with an attached policy that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up AWS permissions]
* Permissions to subscribe and unsubscribe from the AWS Marketplace for your IAM user.

* A key pair for the EC2 instance.

.Steps

. Go to the BlueXP offering in the AWS Marketplace.

.. Open the EC2 service and select *Launch instance*.
.. Select *AWS Marketplace*.
.. Search for BlueXP and select the offering.
+
image:screenshot-gov-cloud-mktp.png[A screenshot that shows the BlueXP offering after searching for it in the AWS Marketplace]

.. Click *Continue*.

. Follow the prompts to configure and deploy the instance:

* *Choose an Instance Type*: Depending on region availability, choose one of the supported instance types (t3.xlarge is recommended).
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Review the instance requirements].

* *Configure Instance Details*: Select a VPC and subnet, choose the IAM role that you created in step 1, enable termination protection (recommended), and choose any other configuration options that meet your requirements.
+
image:screenshot_aws_iam_role.gif[A screenshot that shows fields on the Configure Instance page in AWS. The IAM role that you should have created in step 1 is selected.]

* *Add Storage*: Keep the default storage options.

* *Add Tags*: Enter tags for the instance, if desired.

* *Configure Security Group*: Specify the required connection methods for the Connector instance: SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.

* *Review*: Review your selections and click *Launch*.

.Result

AWS launches the software with the specified settings. The Connector instance and software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Set up BlueXP.
--

.Azure Marketplace
--
.What you'll need

* A VNet and subnet that meets networking requirements.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements]

* An Azure custom role that includes the required permissions for the Connector.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to set up Azure permissions]

.Steps

. Go to the NetApp Connector VM page in the Azure Marketplace.
+
* https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manager[Azure Marketplace page for commercial regions^]
* https://portal.azure.us/#create/netapp.netapp-oncommand-cloud-manageroccm-byol[Azure Marketplace page for Azure Government regions^]

. Click *Get it now* and then click *Continue*.

. From the Azure portal, click *Create* and follow the steps to configure the virtual machine.
+
Note the following as you configure the VM:

* The Connector can perform optimally with either HDD or SSD disks.

* Choose a VM size that meets CPU and RAM requirements. We recommend DS3 v2.

* For the network security group, the Connector requires inbound connections using SSH, HTTP, and HTTPS.
+
link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html[Learn about networking requirements].

* Under *Management*, enable *System assigned managed identity* for the Connector by selecting *On*.
+
This setting is important because a managed identity allows the Connector virtual machine to identify itself to Azure Active Directory without providing any credentials. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview[Learn more about managed identities for Azure resources^].

. On the *Review + create* page, review your selections and click *Create* to start the deployment.

.Result

Azure deploys the virtual machine with the specified settings. The virtual machine and Connector software should be running in approximately five minutes.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.
--

.Manual install
--
.What you'll need

* Root privileges to install the Connector.

* Details about a proxy server, if a proxy is required for internet access from the Connector.
+
You have the option to configure a proxy server after installation but doing so requires restarting the Connector.

* A CA-signed certificate, if the proxy server uses HTTPS.

.About this task

* The installation installs the AWS command line tools (awscli) to enable recovery procedures from NetApp support.
+
If you receive a message that installing the awscli failed, you can safely ignore the message. The Connector can operate successfully without the tools.

* The installer that is available on the NetApp Support Site might be an earlier version. After installation, the Connector automatically updates itself if a new version is available.

.Steps

. Verify that docker is enabled and running.
+
[source,cli]
sudo systemctl enable docker && sudo systemctl start docker

. Download the Connector software from the https://mysupport.netapp.com/site/products/all/details/cloud-manager/downloads-tab[NetApp Support Site^], and then copy it to the Linux host.
+
You should download the "online" Connector installer that's meant for use in your network or in the cloud. A separate "offline" installer is available for the Connector, but it's only supported with private mode deployments.

. Assign permissions to run the script.
+
[source,cli]
chmod +x OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23

. Run the installation script.
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy <HTTP or HTTPS proxy server> --cacert <path and file name of a CA-signed certificate>
+
The --proxy and --cacert parameters are optional. If you have a proxy server, you will need to enter the parameter(s) as shown. The installer doesn't prompt you to provide information about a proxy.
+
Here's an example of the command using both optional parameters:
+
[source,cli]
 ./OnCommandCloudManager-V3.9.23 --proxy https://user:password@10.0.0.30:8080/ --cacert /tmp/cacert/certificate.cer
+
--proxy configures the Connector to use an HTTP or HTTPS proxy server using one of the following formats:
+
* \http://address:port
* \http://username:password@address:port
* \https://address:port
* \https://username:password@address:port

+
--cacert specifies a CA-signed certificate to use for HTTPS access between the Connector and the proxy server. This parameter is required only if you specify an HTTPS proxy server.

.Result

The Connector is now installed. At the end of the installation, the Connector service (occm) restarts twice if you specified a proxy server.

.What's next?

Provide BlueXP with the permissions that you previously set up.
--

====
// end tabbed area

== Provide the Connector with permissions

If you deployed the Connector from the Azure Marketplace or if you manually installed the Connector software, you need to provide the permissions that you previously set up so that you can use BlueXP services.

These steps don't apply if you deployed the Connector from the AWS Marketplace because you chose the required IAM role during deployment. 

link:task-prepare-restricted-mode.html#prepare-cloud-permissions[Learn how to prepare cloud permissions].

// start tabbed area

[role="tabbed-block"]
====

.AWS
--
Attach an IAM role that you previously created to the Connector EC2 instance.

These steps apply only if you manually installed the Connector in AWS. For AWS Marketplace deployments, you already associated the Connector instance with an IAM role that includes the required permissions.

.Steps

. Go to the Amazon EC2 console.

. Select *Instances*.

. Select the Connector instance.

. Select *Actions > Security > Modify IAM role*.

. Select the IAM role and click *Update IAM role*.
--

.Azure
--
Go to the Azure portal and assign the Azure custom role to the Connector virtual machine for one or more subscriptions.

.Steps

. From the Azure Portal, open the *Subscriptions* service and select your subscription.

. Click *Access control (IAM)* > *Add* > *Add role assignment*.

. In the *Role* tab, select the *BlueXP Operator* role and click *Next*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP Operator is the default name provided in the BlueXP policy. If you chose a different name for the role, then select that name instead.

. In the *Members* tab, complete the following steps:

.. Assign access to a *Managed identity*.

.. Click *Select members*, select the subscription in which the Connector virtual machine was created, choose *Virtual machine*, and then select the Connector virtual machine.

.. Click *Select*.

.. Click *Next*.

.. Click *Review + assign*.

.. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP from additional subscriptions, switch to that subscription and then repeat these steps.
--

.Google Cloud
--
Associate the service account with the Connector VM.

.Steps

. https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/access/create-enable-service-accounts-for-instances#changeserviceaccountandscopes[Associate the service account that you created with the Connector VM]

. If you want to deploy Cloud Volumes ONTAP in other projects, grant access by adding the service account with the BlueXP role to that project. You'll need to repeat this step for each project.
--

====
// end tabbed area

== Set up BlueXP

When you access the BlueXP console for the first time, you'll be prompted to set up BlueXP.

.Steps

. Open a web browser from a host that has a connection to the Connector instance and enter the following URL:
+
https://_ipaddress_

. Sign up or log in to BlueXP.

. After you log in, set up BlueXP:

.. Specify the NetApp account to associate with the Connector.
+
link:concept-netapp-accounts.html[Learn about NetApp accounts].
.. Enter a name for the system.

. If you deployed the Connector from the AWS Commercial Marketplace, from the Azure Commercial Marketplace, or by manually installing the software, then you need to disable the SaaS platform for your account:

.. From the top of BlueXP, click the *Account* drop-down and click *Manage Account*.

.. In the Overview tab, toggle the option to disable use of the SaaS platform.

+
Disabling the SaaS platform is required to enable restricted mode. If you deployed the Connector from the AWS Government Marketplace or the Azure Government Marketplace, then SaaS mode is already disabled.

.Result

The Connector is now installed and set up with your NetApp account. All users need to access BlueXP using the IP address of the Connector instance.
