task-configuring-proxy.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-configuring-proxy.html
keywords: proxy, proxy server, proxy, internet, HTTP, http, https
summary: If your corporate policies require you to use a proxy server for all communication to the internet, then you need to configure your Connectors to use that proxy server. If you didn't configure a Connector to use a proxy server during installation, then you can configure the Connector to use that proxy server at any time. 
---

= Configure a Connector to use a proxy server
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
If your corporate policies require you to use a proxy server for all communication to the internet, then you need to configure your Connectors to use that proxy server. If you didn't configure a Connector to use a proxy server during installation, then you can configure the Connector to use that proxy server at any time.

BlueXP supports HTTP and HTTPS. The proxy server can be in the cloud or in your network.

Configuring the Connector to use a proxy server provides outbound internet access if a public IP address or a NAT gateway isn't available. This proxy server provides only the Connector with an outbound connection. It doesn't provide any connectivity for Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems.

If Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems don't have an outbound internet connection to send AutoSupport messages, BlueXP automatically configures those Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems to use a proxy server that's included with the Connector. The only requirement is to ensure that the Connector's security group allows inbound connections over port 3128. You'll need to open this port after you deploy the Connector.

== Enable a proxy on a Connector

When you configure a Connector to use a proxy server, that Connector and the Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems that it manages (including any HA mediators), all use the proxy server.

Note that this operation restarts the Connector. Ensure that the Connector isn’t performing any operations before you proceed.

.Steps

. link:task-logging-in.html[Log in to the BlueXP SaaS interface^] from a machine that has a network connection to the Connector instance.
+
If the Connector doesn't have a public IP address, you'll need a VPN connection or you'll need to connect from a jump host that's in the same network as the Connector.

. Click the *Connector* drop-down and then click *Go to local UI* for a specific Connector.
+
image:screenshot_connector_local_ui.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Go to local UI action.]
+
The BlueXP interface running on the Connector loads in a new browser tab.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Connector Settings*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Under *General*, click *HTTP Proxy Configuration*.

. Set up the proxy:

.. Click *Enable Proxy*.
.. Specify the server using the syntax http://_address:port_ or https://_address:port_
.. Specify a user name and password if basic authentication is required for the server
.. Click *Save*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP doesn't support passwords that include the @ character.

== Enable direct API traffic

If you configured a proxy server, you can send API calls directly to BlueXP without going through the proxy. This option is supported with Connectors that are running in AWS, in Azure, or in Google Cloud.

.Steps

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Connector Settings*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Under *General*, click *Support Direct API Traffic*.

. Click the checkbox to enable the option and then click *Save*.

Commit message:

Clarified how enabling direct API traffic works

task-configuring-proxy.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-configuring-proxy.html
keywords: proxy, proxy server, proxy, internet, HTTP, http, https
summary: If your corporate policies require you to use a proxy server for all communication to the internet, then you need to configure your Connectors to use that proxy server. If you didn't configure a Connector to use a proxy server during installation, then you can configure the Connector to use that proxy server at any time. 
---

= Configure a Connector to use a proxy server
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
If your corporate policies require you to use a proxy server for all communication to the internet, then you need to configure your Connectors to use that proxy server. If you didn't configure a Connector to use a proxy server during installation, then you can configure the Connector to use that proxy server at any time.

BlueXP supports HTTP and HTTPS. The proxy server can be in the cloud or in your network.

Configuring the Connector to use a proxy server provides outbound internet access if a public IP address or a NAT gateway isn't available. This proxy server provides only the Connector with an outbound connection. It doesn't provide any connectivity for Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems.

If Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems don't have an outbound internet connection to send AutoSupport messages, BlueXP automatically configures those Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems to use a proxy server that's included with the Connector. The only requirement is to ensure that the Connector's security group allows inbound connections over port 3128. You'll need to open this port after you deploy the Connector.

== Enable a proxy on a Connector

When you configure a Connector to use a proxy server, that Connector and the Cloud Volumes ONTAP systems that it manages (including any HA mediators), all use the proxy server.

Note that this operation restarts the Connector. Ensure that the Connector isn’t performing any operations before you proceed.

.Steps

. link:task-logging-in.html[Log in to the BlueXP SaaS interface^] from a machine that has a network connection to the Connector instance.
+
If the Connector doesn't have a public IP address, you'll need a VPN connection or you'll need to connect from a jump host that's in the same network as the Connector.

. Click the *Connector* drop-down and then click *Go to local UI* for a specific Connector.
+
image:screenshot_connector_local_ui.gif[A screenshot that shows the Connector icon in the header and the Go to local UI action.]
+
The BlueXP interface running on the Connector loads in a new browser tab.

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Connector Settings*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Under *General*, click *HTTP Proxy Configuration*.

. Set up the proxy:

.. Click *Enable Proxy*.
.. Specify the server using the syntax http://_address:port_ or https://_address:port_
.. Specify a user name and password if basic authentication is required for the server
.. Click *Save*.
+
NOTE: BlueXP doesn't support passwords that include the @ character.

== Enable direct API traffic

If you configured a Connector to use a proxy server, you can enable direct API traffic on the Connector in order to send API calls directly to cloud provider services without going through the proxy. This option is supported with Connectors that are running in AWS, in Azure, or in Google Cloud.

If you disabled the use of Azure Private Links with Cloud Volumes ONTAP and are using service endpoints instead, then you must enable direct API traffic. Otherwise, the traffic won't be routed properly.

https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-cloud-volumes-ontap/task-enabling-private-link.html[Learn more about using an Azure Private Link or service endpoints with Cloud Volumes ONTAP]

.Steps

. In the upper right of the BlueXP console, click the Settings icon, and select *Connector Settings*.
+
image:screenshot_settings_icon.gif[A screenshot that shows the Settings icon in the upper right of the BlueXP console.]

. Under *General*, click *Support Direct API Traffic*.

. Click the checkbox to enable the option and then click *Save*.
