task-viewing-azure-blob.adoc, before:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-viewing-azure-blob.html
keywords: s3 buckets, s3 storage, s3 working environment, amazon s3 buckets, amazon s3 working environment
summary: After you install a Connector in AWS, Cloud Manager can automatically discover information about the Amazon S3 buckets that reside in the AWS account where it's installed.
---

= Viewing your Azure Blob accounts
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
After you install a Connector in AWS, Cloud Manager can automatically discover information about the Amazon S3 buckets that reside in the AWS account where it's installed.

You can see details about your S3 buckets, including the region, access level, storage class, and whether the bucket is used with Cloud Volumes ONTAP for backups or data tiering. And you can scan the S3 buckets with Cloud Data Sense.

.Steps

. link:task-creating-connectors-aws.html[Install a Connector] in the AWS account where you want to view your Amazon S3 buckets.
+
You should automatically see an Amazon S3 working environment shortly after.
+
image:screenshot_s3_we.gif[A screenshot of an Amazon S3 working environment.]

. Click the working environment and select an action from the right pane.
+
image:screenshot_s3_actions.gif[A screenshot that shows the actions pane after you select an Amazon S3 working environment. The pane shows information about S3: the number of buckets and regions. The pane also has two actions: Enable Compliance and View Buckets.]

. Click *Enable Compliance* to scan the S3 buckets for personal and sensitive data.
+
For more details, see https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-data-sense/task-scanning-s3.html[Getting started with Cloud Data Sense for Amazon S3^].
+
. Click *View Buckets* to view details about the S3 buckets in your AWS account.
+
image:screenshot_amazon_s3.gif[A screenshot that shows the details of an Amazon S3 working environment: the total number of buckets and total number of regions, the number of buckets with active services, and then a table that shows details about each S3 bucket.]

Commit message:

completed changes for new azure and gcp working environments

task-viewing-azure-blob.adoc, after:

---
sidebar: sidebar
permalink: task-viewing-azure-blob.html
keywords: blob storage, blob working environment, azure blob storage accounts, azure blob working environment
summary: After you install a Connector in Azure, Cloud Manager can automatically discover information about the Azure storage accounts that reside in the Azure Subscriptions where the Connector is installed. An Azure Blob working environment is added to the Canvas so you can view this information.
---

= Viewing your Azure Blob accounts
:hardbreaks:
:nofooter:
:icons: font
:linkattrs:
:imagesdir: ./media/

[.lead]
After you install a Connector in Azure, Cloud Manager can automatically discover information about the Azure storage accounts that reside in the Azure Subscriptions where the Connector is installed. An Azure Blob working environment is added to the Canvas so you can view this information.

You can see details about your Azure storage accounts, including the location, resource group, total and used capacity, and more. These accounts can be used as destinations for Cloud Backup, Cloud Tiering, or Cloud Sync operations.

.Steps

. link:task-creating-connectors-azure.html[Install a Connector] in the Azure account where you want to view your Azure storage accounts.
+
You should automatically see an Azure Blob working environment shortly after.
+
image:screenshot-azure-blob-we.png[A screenshot of an Azure Blob working environment.]

. Click the working environment and select an action from the right pane.
+
image:screenshot-azure-actions.png["A screenshot that shows the actions pane after you select an Azure Blob working environment. The pane shows the total number of storage accounts and an action for using the Sync service."]

. Click *Sync data* to synchronize data to or from Azure Blob storage.
+
For more details, see https://docs.netapp.com/us-en/cloud-manager-sync/concept-cloud-sync.html[the overview for the Cloud Sync service^].
+
. Click *Enter Working Environment* to view details about the Azure storage accounts in your Azure Blobs.
+
image:screenshot-azure-blob-details.png["A screenshot that shows the details of an Azure Blob working environment: the total number of storage accounts, total number of locations, resource groups, total and used capacity, and more."]
